---
CIP: CIP-????
Title: Proof of Onboarding
Status: Proposed
Category: Wallets
Authors:
- Adam Dean <adam@crypto2099.io>
- Carl <vegas@hosky.io>
- Alex Dochioiu <alex@dochioiu.com>
Implementors:
- VESPR Wallet
Discussions:
- https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/546
Created: 2023-06-20
License: CC-BY-4.0
---

> Current Version: 1

## Abstract

Since at least 2021 when Cardano entered the Mary Era and implemented Native Assets, projects and creators building on
the network have sought a means to distribute their tokens efficiently to users. Of particular frustration has been the
ability to onboard new users at real-world events. Solutions for this historically have been to create and preload
"paper wallets" where a seed phrase and accompanying password is generated by the project, pre-populated with tokens and
ADA, and then delivered over to attendees of said event.

The creation of this addendum to the CIP-13 Cardano URI scheme seeks to minimize this friction and take advantage of
existing technology to enable a new era of user onboarding, particularly at real world events through the use of a
defined URI scheme enabling instant and frictionless communication between a project's "token fountain" and the user's
wallet to reward, incentivize, and onboard new users easier than ever.

This CIP defines an extension to the CIP-13 URI Scheme as well as an API specification to facilitate and streamline
communications between wallets and project servers.

## Motivation: Why is this CIP necessary?

By leveraging the power of Cardano-specific URIs (CIP-13) and the modern technological advances of mobile devices and
wallets we can provide a framework for Cardano projects to attend real world events, incentivize or reward attendees via
their Native Assets, and have facts and figures to help support and analyze the impact that their attendance had (Proof
of Onboarding).

Furthermore, the aforementioned "paper wallet" technique has many drawbacks including:
* The person(s) responsible for generating the paper wallets at some point have access to the seed phrases generated, leading to a potential security vulnerability
* Projects would need to preload these wallets with funds/tokens; this makes it difficult and/or impossible to reliably know how many of the paper wallets were ever actually claimed
* For those wallets that go forever unclaimed, this essentially creates a permanent "burn" of both Lovelace and the native assets of the project; less than ideal

We feel that this is necessary as a CIP in order to minimize friction for new projects while maximizing compatibility
across the wide spectrum of Cardano wallets.

## Specification

### CIP-13 Cardano URI Extensions

Distributing Native Assets (and/or ADA) to attendees of IRL events has historically been a pain point in the ecosystem.
Some implemented solutions have included: Pre-generating wallet seed phrases and pre-populating these wallets with a
minimum amount of ADA as well as the desired Native Assets, (re)creating token fountain/faucet designs which can be
cumbersome and not user-friendly to instruct individuals to install a wallet, visit a website, enter a code and claim
tokens.

The Cardano Token Claim URI schema is proposed to allow wallets (particularly mobile wallets) to implement a QR-friendly
URI structure allowing for easy onboarding and distribution of Native Assets and/or ADA to individuals in a variety of
situations but not least of which being at IRL events specifically tailored and geared to onboarding new users to the
ecosystem.

Examples:
```html
<!-- Token Claim URIs -->
<a href="web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.hosky.io&code=consensus2023">Claim $HOSKY</a>
<a href="web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.hosky.io%2Fconsensus23&code=ABC123">Claim $HOSKY</a>
<a href="web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.nftxlv.com&code=ABC123&invoice=123456">Claim NFTxLV Commermorative NFT!</a>
```

#### ABNF Grammar

* For a token claim URI (authority = `claim`), a versioning path, a `faucet_url` and a required `code`.
* Additional query parameters may be provided and should be passed through to the provided `faucet_url` as-is.

``` 
cardanourn = "web+cardano:" claimtokenref

claimtokenref = "//claim" claimversion claimquery
claimversion = "/v1"
claimquery = ( "?" claimurl) ( "&" claimcode)
claimurl = "faucet_url=" text
claimcode = "code=" text
```

#### Token Claim URI Queries

Token Claim URIs must include a path indicating protocol version and at minimum a `faucet_url` argument pointing to the
faucet hosted and maintained by the project.

**All arguments for Token Claim URIs should be URL-encoded**

***Version 1 URIs***

Version 1 URIs must include a `faucet_url` and a `code` as required parameters. URIs may include additional arguments to
suit the needs of the project's faucet API.


#### Handling Token Claim URI Queries

The token claim URI should consist of a required versioning `path` (i.e. `/v1`) as well as one or more required
or optional URL-encoded arguments.

All Token Claim URIs must include a URL-encoded `faucet_url` argument as well as a `code` argument.

The wallet provider should send a POST request to the provided `Faucet URL` that includes:
* The change/receipt wallet address of the user
* Any additional arguments specified in the URI as key: value pairs

**Example:**

```
URI: web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.hosky.io%2Fconsensus23&code=ABC123
Version: 1
URL: https://claim.hosky.io/consensus23
CODE: ABC123
JSON POST Data:
```
```json
{
  "address": "addr1abc...xyz",
  "code": "ABC123"
}
```

##### Note on the `address` field

The wallet should always send the recipient address in bech32 format. If a particular token faucet implementation wishes
to restrict or limit access to their faucet based on staking key or individual wallet address, this should be handled at
the wallet end.

##### Note on the `code` field

The code is required. Specifying a `code` allows for reliable tracking and/or limiting of claims to the faucet host. 
Codes can be used to identify attendees of particular events (i.e. CODE = `consensus2023`) or can be a unique, one-time
code per user (i.e. CODE = `abc123xyz987`). In this way we leave the code to be flexible to match a variety of
analytical use cases depending upon the needs of the implementing project.

#### Security Considerations

1. Wallets should prompt/warn users prior to sending potentially sensitive information (wallet address + code) via the
   token claim URI. An informational pop-up or confirmation modal should be displayed to users such as:
   `We are about to send your address and code 123456 to https://claim.hosky.io. Are you sure you want to proceed?`

### Process Flow

The envisioned process flow for the POO Protocol is as follows:
1. The project set asides some amount of budget (tokens + Lovelace [minUTxO]) for a given marketing push or IRL event
2. If desired, one or more `codes` are generated to help track and analyze claiming figures
3. QR Code(s) may be generated, printed, and otherwise displayed or given to users during the course of events
4. Users scan the code with their mobile light wallet
5. The light wallet makes a POST request to the API endpoint specified in the Cardano URI containing the user's wallet address and the included code (if present)
6. The project API returns a documented status code indicating the success or failure of the operation
7. If a successful status is detected and returned, the project issues tokens to the specified address per their campaign settings

### URI Format

The URI format consists of the CIP-13 `web+cardano://` scheme, followed by the `claim` authority, then a `version` path.

***NOTE: ALL ARGUMENTS SHOULD BE URL-ENCODED***

#### Version 1

Version 1 URIs must include `/v1` as the path of the URI.

Version 1 URIs must include two required arguments:

* `faucet_url` as a fully-typed URL (i.e. https://claim.hosky.io)
* `code` as either a campaign identifier or unique, one-time use code

Version 1 URIs may include additional query parameters that should be passed through to the api server.

_Version 1 Examples:_

```html
<!-- A Cardano Claim URI with campaign identifier code -->
<a href="web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.hosky.io&code=consensus2023">Thanks for attending Consensus 2023!</a>

<!-- A Cardano Claim URI with unique, one-time use code -->
<a href="web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.hosky.io&code=dff6508d8dfb4e128fd67e9ff54af147">Claim your $HOSKY now!</a>

<!-- A Cardano Claim URI with a campaign-specific code and optional user_id argument -->
<a href="web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.hosky.io&code=NFTxLV2023&user_id=Idjiot1337">Get your $HOSKY!</a>
```
### Wallet Requests

Light wallets that detect and support `web+cardano` URIs as well as mobile wallets who detect either a QR code or other
link with this format should parse the URI and send a `POST` request to the specified URL containing a JSON payload
including:

* The user's wallet receive address
* The code
* Additional URI query parameters passed through

#### Examples

##### _Faucet URL + Campaign Code_
- URI: ```web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.nftxlv.com&code=NFTxLV2023```
- Faucet URL: ```https://claim.nftxlv.com```
- POST JSON Data:
```json
{
  "address": "addr1abc...xyz",
  "code": "NFTxLV2023"
}
```

##### _Faucet URL + Unique Code_
- URI: ```web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.nftxlv.com&code=NFTxLV2023```
- Faucet URL: ```https://claim.hosky.io```
- POST JSON Data:
```json
{
  "address": "addr1abc...xyz",
  "code": "ABC123"
}
```

#### _Faucet URL + Campaign Code + Custom User ID_
- URI: ```web+cardano://claim/v1?faucet_url=https%3A%2F%2Fclaim.nftxlv.com&code=NFTxLV2023&user_id=Adam1337```
- Faucet URL: ```https://claim.nftxlv.com```
- POST JSON Data:
```json
{
  "address": "addr1abc...xyz",
  "code": "NFTxLV2023",
  "user_id": "Adam1337"
}
```

## API Server Response Codes

The API server is expected to return one of the following defined status blocks in `application/json` format. Any other
responses from the API server should be considered invalid and discarded or display an error.

The expected API that any token fountain implementation should follow and wallet integrators should expect is documented
on Swagger!

* [Version 1](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/CatastrophicCardano/FaucetAPI/1)

### Successful Responses

#### Valid (200)

First Successful Request

```json
{
  "code": 200,
  "lovelaces": "2000000",
  "queue_position": 23,
  "status": "accepted",
  "tokens": {
    "a0028f350aaabe0545fdcb56b039bfb08e4bb4d8c4d7c3c7d481c235.484f534b59": "29433292000000"
  }
}
```

#### Valid Queued (201)

Subsequent Successful Request (Address + Code Match) prior to token distribution

```json
{
  "code": 201,
  "lovelaces": "2000000",
  "queue_position": 1,
  "status": "queued",
  "tokens": {
    "a0028f350aaabe0545fdcb56b039bfb08e4bb4d8c4d7c3c7d481c235.484f534b59": "29433292000000"
  }
}
```

#### Valid Complete (202)

Subsequent Successful Request (Address + Code Match) after token(s) are distributed

```json
{
  "code": 202,
  "lovelaces": "2000000",
  "status": "claimed",
  "tokens": {
    "a0028f350aaabe0545fdcb56b039bfb08e4bb4d8c4d7c3c7d481c235.484f534b59": "29433292000000"
  },
  "tx_hash": "TX1234"
}
```

### Error Responses

#### Bad Request - Invalid Address (400)

The provided address is not a valid Cardano address

```json
{
   "code": 400,
   "status": "invalidaddress"
}
```

#### Bad Request - Missing Code (400)

No code was provided in the request

```json
{
   "code": 400,
   "status": "missingcode"
}
```

#### Bad Request - Invalid Network (400)

The wallet provided is from the wrong network (testnet/mainnet)

```json
{
   "code": 400,
   "status": "invalidnetwork"
}
```

#### Invalid - Not Known (404)

The specified code does not exist

```json
{
  "code": 404,
  "status": "notfound"
}
```

#### Invalid - Already Claimed (409)

An address was already used (if not code present) or the code presented was found but the address did not match

```json
{
  "code": 409,
  "status": "alreadyclaimed"
}
```

#### Invalid - Expired (410)

For time-limited fountains, a code of 410 means that the period for redemption has expired

```json 
{
  "code": 410,
  "status": "expired"
}
```

#### Invalid - Too Early (425)

For time-limited fountains, a code of 425 means that the period for redemption has not begun yet

```json
{
  "code": 425,
  "status": "tooearly"
}
```

#### Invalid - Rate Limited (429)

Rate limiting settings and details are left to the discretion and implementation of individual projects. A status code
of 429 or this status response should be considered as a rate limiting response.

```json
{
  "code": 429,
  "status": "ratelimited"
}
```

#### Server Error (500)

Implementations should of course be prepared to handle situations where a server is non-responsive for any reason and
be prepared to handle any other, non-specified error codes including 500 codes.

# Rationale

By creating a well-defined standard for both a CIP-13 URI scheme and the expected API response(s) we can create a
framework that both wallets and projects can utilize to encourage and onboard new users into the ecosystem via Native
Asset incentive models without needlessly and constantly reinventing the wheel for each product or project.

By utilizing this framework, projects can have accurate, measurable analytics into the success of various real-world
marketing and event efforts: Proof of Onboarding.

# Path to Active

## Acceptance Criteria

- [X] Demonstrate a working MVP
- [ ] Open source an MVP example of token faucet server-side code
- [ ] Receive feedback and iterate based on community feedback

## Implementation Plan

In order to encourage adoption of this standard the authors commit to execute a functional a minimum viable product
proof of concept demonstration in partnership between Adam Dean, HOSKY Token, and VESPR wallet. This real-world
implementation should give us important insight on whether the system requires additional modifications or changes.

From there we will do our best to engage with other teams and projects in the ecosystem to encourage and support
adoption of this standard on a larger scale.

## Acceptance & Implementation Actions

1. The Proof of Onboarding protocol was demonstrated via MVP during the Edinburgh, Scotland, UK CIP-1694 workshop hosted
   by IOG in July 2023. This MVP demonstrated that the protocol works as described in this CIP and the overall feedback
   from participants has been positive. This MVP was executed in collaboration with VESPR mobile Cardano wallet, HOSKY
   token project, and Adam Dean as the distributor and architect of the specification.
   1. [X] VESPR Mobile Wallet as of the time of this writing has support for Version 1 of the Proof of Onboarding Protocol
      and is freely available for the use of any and all projects.
   2. [ ] HOSKY Token project is working on finalizing and releasing a working, open source MVP for the software needed
      to be run by the distributing project that will support fungible and non-fungible tokens or any combination thereof.
   3. [ ] Adam Dean is in talks with additional wallet providers to bring P.O.O. support to more platforms as well as
      working on open source tooling to facilitate ease of implementation for other projects.

# Copyright

This CIP is licensed under [CC-BY-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).