# CIP-0014 User-Facing Asset Id 

# Preamble

---
CIP: 0014
Title: User-Facing Asset Id
Authors: Matthias Benkort <matthias.benkort@iohk.io>, Rodney Lorrimar <rodney.lorrimar@iohk.io>
Comments-Summary: A common format for displaying a unique identifier for assets.
Comments-URI: https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/wiki/Comments:CIP-0014
Status: Draft
Type: Standards
Created: 2020-02-01
License: CC-BY-4.0
---

# Abstract

This specification defines a unique user-facing asset id as a bech32-encoded blake2b-256 digest of the concatenation of the policy id and the asset name.

# Motivation

The Mary era of Cardano introduces the support for native assets. On the blockchain, native assets are uniquely identified by both their so-called policy id and asset name. Neither the 
policy id nor the asset name are intended to be human-readable data. 

On the one hand, the policy id is a hash digest of either a monetary script or a Plutus script. On the other hand, the asset name is an arbitrary bytestring of up to 32 bytes (which does not necessarily decode to a valid UTF-8 sequence). In addition, it is possible for an asset to have an empty asset name, or, for assets to have identical asset names under different policy ids. 

Because assets are manipulated in several user-facing features, and also via hardware devices, it is useful to come up with a short(er) and human-readable identifier for assets that user can recognize and refer to when talking about assets.

# Specification

We define a unique identifier for assets in pseudo-code as:

```
assetId := encodeBech32
  ( datapart = hash
    ( algorithm = 'blake2b'
    , digest-length = 32
    , message = policyId | assetName
    )
  , humanReadablePart = 'token'
  )
```

where `|` designates the concatenation of two bytestrings and the `digest-length` is given in `bytes`.

# Rationale

- The asset id needs to be unique and must therefore include both the policy id and the asset name.
- Using a hash gives us asset id of a same deterministic length which is short enough to display reasonably well on small screens.
- The hash digest is short but long enough to still allow ~2^256 possible different asset ids, which is _plenty_.
- We use bech32 as a user-facing encoding since it is both user-friendly and quite common within the Cardano eco-system (e.g. addresses, pool ids, keys).

# Backwards Compatibility

N/A

# Reference Implementation

<details>
  <summary>Haskell</summary>

```hs
{-# LANGUAGE OverloadedStrings #-}
{-# LANGUAGE QuasiQuotes #-}
{-# LANGUAGE TypeApplications #-}

-- package: base >= 4.0.0
import Prelude
import Data.Function
    ( (&) )

-- package: bech32 >= 1.0.2
import qualified Codec.Binary.Bech32 as Bech32

-- package: bech32-th >= 1.0.2
import Codec.Binary.Bech32.TH
    ( humanReadablePart )

-- package: bytestring >= 0.10.0.0
import Data.ByteString
    ( ByteString )

-- package: cryptonite >= 0.22
import Crypto.Hash
    ( hash )
import Crypto.Hash.Algorithms
    ( Blake2b_256 )

-- package: memory >= 0.14
import Data.ByteArray
    ( convert )

-- package: text >= 1.0.0.0
import Data.Text
    ( Text )


newtype PolicyId = PolicyId ByteString
newtype AssetName = AssetName ByteString
newtype AssetId = AssetId Text

mkAssetId :: PolicyId -> AssetName -> AssetId
mkAssetId (PolicyId pid) (AssetName name)
    = (pid <> name)
    & convert . hash @_ @Blake2b_256
    & Bech32.encodeLenient hrp . Bech32.dataPartFromBytes
    & AssetId
  where
    hrp = [humanReadablePart|token|]
```
</details>

# Copyright

CC-BY-4.0
