**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [July 15 2020 notes](#july-15-2020-notes)
  * [Triage](#triage)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP5](#cip5)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Close](#close)
- [Extra](#extra)
  * [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](#current-cips-in-the-cip-repository-and-their-status)
  * [CIP creation process as a UML Diagram](#cip-creation-process-as-a-uml-diagram)
  * [Understanding CIPs further](#understanding-cips-further)
## Summary

Rough writeup of 7/15/20 Editors meeting notes taken during that day's CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Notes might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>


## Editors Meeting Flow
- [x] **Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..
- [x] **Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)
- [x] **New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  
PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
- [x] **Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.
- [x] **Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.



## July 15 2020 notes


**Attending**: (Duncan, Sebastien, Frederic, ~~Matthias~~) + Eystein (guest)



### Triage
- Still issues with the multi-review. 
- Need to add meeting notes to the repo.
- Merge pr (copy tweak on CIP1). 
### Last Check
=> **Action**: - merge pr (CIP2 - “Coin Selection” - DRAFT) 
### Review
#### CIP5 
>**Sebastian** - Happy with all.  
Need to resolve that Cardano Wallet and possibly CLI uses this list, but Haskell-Shelley Rust codebase doesn’t use this, and uses diff prefixes… and this should be the main issue there. I would have to go in there and fix the prefixes themselves.  
>**D**: Reviewing the prefixes right now.  
>**S**: We have diff prefixes for mainnet and testnet. Which is duplicating the header payload.  
>**D**: It duplicates it but in an error checking way. If you need to render… The bit in the payload tells you that. And if mismatch, then you can address. In some sense, it duplicates and makes it visible to the user that they are dealing with a testnet address.  
>**Eystein** - would be good to have multiple iteration prefixes per testnet  
>**D**-> poor form - distinguishing is broken down. Addr is to prevent people from spending real money to testnet .. You don’t have that problem from testnet to testnet.  
>**S**: “Diff addr type in Shelley” Vs. Jormungandr. The concern is that diff address types might be confusing to ppl. So for Daedalus and Yoroi we decided to only support grp addresses.
For Haskell-Shelley, we will have the same issue - so most likely those other addr. types will be hidden behind some flags of sorts.   
>**D**: That’ll likely be up to the wallet itself to figure out which type to use.   
>**E**: I don’t care if automated - I can see a usecase for both…  
>**D**: The distinction between the internal addr struct is just not important to regular users. It’s probably more confusing to highlight those as 10 different combinations.. Of staking, base, ptr… 
All of these can be by key or by script. Do we want to distinguish clearly? Is that helpful? Can it be actively un-helpful?
Because in the end they are all payment addresses.   
>**S**: I think that would be a mess with users. I am more about enterprise vs. base. Because they all in a sense have their own chain - BIP44 sense? If you generate your addr for a single key. … this has to be displayed differently.   
(..)   
>**D**: Privacy in a wallet is the same as BTC or ETC - Under Matthias / Sebastien scheme, it’s easy to see they belong together. You only get privacy at the wallet account level.
3 ways a pmt addr can refer to a stake. And therefore have stake or not:  
Null (short)  
Ptr (short)    
Base (long)  
>**S**: Since all generated, the wallet will have to render … you’d have diff pages. Ex - a page for external addr page. Would need a way to toggle the rendering - to switch between base and ptr.  
>**D**: There should be a default - it would never as standard mode for users do null staking..  
>**S**: after the initial release the wallet would show default release.  
>**D**: Wallet should not confuse users by presenting too many options… If easier to display short addr, should be simplified.  
>**D**: It’s a disc to have with Matthias - for Seb. (+Darko)  
Should we lump all Txs under one prefix?   
>**S** - I am not yet convinced about the addr prefix. But not concerned.   
>**D**: You don’t have to add the addr. if the wallet takes care of it for you.  
>**S**: Every addr. in Yoroi could display what type it is… would deal with the combinations. Screen space was dedicated for that but could be freed if bech32 impl.   
>**D**: Not majorly important.   

### Discussions
- Pool operators are thinking about a “Standardizing” CIP. 
- Opening up meetings visibility to the public.
- Internal requests to consider CIP exploration re: Address management (for 100ks of i.e. exchanges). 
- Eystein as first guest - Reinvite an option to connect with community (Want to carefully open up meetings to public… at first 1-2 spots, later more). 
_Eystein had a good talk he did at the Cardano Summit in July - he understands governance / the need for CIPs._ 

### Close
- **CIP5** as Draft OK to merge - will be iterated on.
- **CIP2** Merged delayed till next meeting to round up last Qs.

(missing - current minor PR qs - ex: where and how to store meeting notes) 
(Close) 


---
## Extra

### Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status 


|#              |Title            | Status               |
| ----------------- |:----------------|:-------------------- |
| 1                 | [CIP Process](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP1)     | Active   |



:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP1).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_


![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](./sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further


[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
