 **Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [August 11 2020 notes](#-11-2020-notes)
  * [Triage](#triage)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
  * [Review](#review)
      + [CIP5](#cip5)
      + [CIP4](#cip4)
      + [CIP3](#cip3)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Close](#close)
- [Extra](#extra)
  * [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](#current-cips-in-the-cip-repository-and-their-status)
  * [CIP creation process as a UML Diagram](#cip-creation-process-as-a-uml-diagram)
  * [Understanding CIPs further](#understanding-cips-further)
## Summary

Rough writeup of 8/11/20 Editors meeting notes taken during that day's CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Notes might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>


## Editors Meeting Flow
- [x] **Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..
- [x] **Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)
- [x] **New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  
PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
- [x] **Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.
- [x] **Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.



## August 11 2020 notes


**Attending**: (~~Duncan~~, Frederic, Matthias, Sebastien) + Ben (CF)



### Triage
N/A

### Last Check
N/A

### Review  
#### CIP5
> **Matthias** - Needs to be finalized a bit more to be moved to “Proposed”. The internals of addresses are not really relevant for users. I don’t see why having diff. prefixes would help. Except for Advanced users.  
> **M** - It actually *could* go to “Proposed” right now  - it doesn’t prevent us from doing updates. The set of problems we are working on is changing, so having revisions on CIP makes sense. The issue of updating a CIP beyond a final setup would be done through an update.   
> **Sebastien** - it would be nice to have a separate prefix for others… We can modify stuff after once that is settled… and that is fine as we will have to change things.   

#### CIP4
> **S** - Needs test vectors - should be quick. The Wallet checksum should be merged, it just got shipped.
In CIP4 there are 2 versions - the Shelley Account is using the new format - everything is working - we have a javascript inmplemetation. We are hopefully going to release as Yoroi extension. Would be nice to have it merged. My understanding is that both teams are fine - it makes more sense, it’s more secure - it’s a bit more complicated.  
> **M** - I see you changed a lot more since I looked at it - will try to review it and move forward.  
> **S** - That CIP will also be used by Ergo - it will be a multichain standard functionally (used by Ergo).   
> **S** - I have a few examples in Emurgo test library - I don’t have the pictures… hope that’s ok.   
#### CIP3
> Still need more work before merging into Draft.

### Discussions 
1. **M** - Change the README to the CIPx file… (change CIP1 content to reflect the structure) -> **Frederic**  
2. Proper License files needed for CIP5 & CIP2 -> **M**  
3. Some Stake pool operators think CIPs are a bit too complex - tried to convince Markus to write up a CIP to no avail... This seems like another way of not being heard. So StakePools wrote their own version. Some community members feel this isn’t fair… It might be good to push into a CIP? CIP engagement is still a bit too Silo’d  -  process could be *more* open. Would need someone in the community to “engage”. We could upload videos or notes in a more public way.  
4. **M** - If ppl don’t want to write CIPs we can’t really force them. Since this is coming from the CF/IOHK/Emurgo - it frightens a bit the community. Having ppl from the community involved as CIP Editors might help?  
5. **Ben** - (Different possible flows for CIP Editorship, to be continued next meeting)  

### Close
**TODO** Add license files to CIP5 & CIP2 (**Matthias**)  
**TODO** Change Format of CIPs (in CIP 1) to have the structures of CIPs change to readme.md (instead CIPx.md) (**Frederic**)  
(Close) 

---
## Extra

### Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status 


|#              |Title            | Status               |
| ----------------- |:----------------|:-------------------- |
| 1                 | [CIP Process](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP1)     | Active   |
| 2                 | [Coin Selection Algorithms for Cardano](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP2) | Draft   |
| 5                 | [Common Bech32 Prefixes](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP5)                | Draft   |


:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP1).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_


![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](./sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further


[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
