 **Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [December 7 2021 notes](#december-7-2021-notes)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [PR156 - cosmetic edits and JSON rework (CIP 6)](#cip6)
    + [PR166 - advancing CIP 9, 10 & 11 Status to 'Active'](#statuses)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [PR137 - tentative CIP 31: "On-Chain Token Metadata Standard"](#metadata) 
    + [PR140 - tentative CIP 28: "Protocol Parameters (Alonzo)"](#alonzo)
  * [Review](#review)
    + [PR148 - Update to CIP 30 (signData API)](#cip30)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Close](#close)
- [Extra](#extra)
  * [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](#current-cips-in-the-cip-repository-and-their-status)
  * [CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram](#cip-creation-process-as-a-sequence-diagram)
  * [Understanding CIPs further](#understanding-cips-further)

## Summary

Rough writeup of 12/7/21 Editors meeting notes taken during that day's CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Notes might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly), [recorded](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly) and [summarized](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

- [x] **Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  
- [x] **Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  
- [x] **New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  
PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
- [x] **Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  
- [x] **Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.  

## December 7 2021 notes 

**Attending Editors**: ~Matthias Benkort~, ~Duncan Coutts~, Sebastien Guillemot, Frederic Johnson, ~Robert Phair~. + guest Michael Peyton-Jones(IOG), Mateja (Artano).


### Triage  

#### 007
**Mateja** - I wanted to reference the [forum post](https://forum.cardano.org/t/cip-007-for-intellectual-property-licensing-legal-documents-inside-nft-metadata/86116) on 007 standard for basically licensing and IPs documents inside of NFTs.  
**M** - It's just a forum post, it hasn't been written on Github or other - I just wanted to propose a standardization of IPs, basically how we handle art and Licensing.  
**Frederic** - (Looking at the forum post) - this would propose two options to add, the properly generated json or in the [CIP 25](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0025) field. Do you feel this could be its own CIP or could it be tacked on to [CIP 25](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0025)?   
**M** - Good Q. It could be linked to [CIP 25](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0025). That's also somewhat my question here, if it should be linked.  
**F** - It matters wether you are the author of [CIP 25](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0025) or ...   
**M** - I am not, I beleive Berry (alessandro) is - I can reach out to them and ask.  
**Sebastien** - I didn't know this blogpost existed until just now.  
**F** - Let's move this to Triage for the next meeting.  
=> Moved to 'Triage' for upcoming editor meeting 36  

#### CIP6
[PR156 - cosmetic edits and JSON rework (CIP 6)](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/156)   
**S** - I think this one was approved by everybody - so we just need to merge it then.  
=> Merged [PR156](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/156)   

#### Statuses
[PR166 - advancing CIP 9, 10 & 11 Status to 'Active'](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/166)    
**F** - This is still lacking one approval but should be merged as soon as we get one more Editor approval.  
=> Merged [PR166](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/166)   


### Last Check   

#### Metadata
[PR137 - tentative CIP 31: "On-Chain Token Metadata Standard"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/137)  
**F** - There were some questions regarding the security of this PR.  
**MPJ** - I was looking at this and linked it to [PR118](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/118) which has some similarities with ?[137](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/137) (Matt Ho's? Matthias?) which share similar issues. In particular if we make the assumption that it only works if we mint a token follow a particular pattern: It's fine for those, but then anything that doesn't follow that pattern is effectively attackable, which is pretty problematic. It would likely be very bad to promote something like that if it doesn't work for ALL tokens, because then, for the ones it doesn't work for, we're actually encouraging people to do something insecure. Maybe I should write out my concern in the PR more detailled.  
**F** - Can you elaborate on the concern?  
**MPJ** - All of these schemes rely on associating a particular transaction with a particular token, usually the one that minted it or the first one that minted token of that currency or something. But not all tokens have a single minting transaction, certainly it's not the case that all tokens are minted by the party that organized them - there are quite a lot of interesting usecase where they might be created/forged by third-party,the issue is not that it be the norm or not, but rather if we make this here a standard, then for the ones that don't follow this pattern, it might be that someone else might spoof the metadata or tools might get confused (tools having no way to check that this is a "well-behaved version" ...) And the thing that is really lacking is a Discussion around that to begin with: we should think about this hard. It would be bad if we just said "oh btw, no one should ever do something that isn't standard because it might mean your metadata might get spoofed and your users might get attacked"  
**F** - In the CIP context, could we merge this as 'Draft' and have the conversation continue in the PR thread? (distinguishing between 'Draft' and 'Active')  
**Sebastien** - I don't think so.  
**MPJ** - Maybe if it had a security section such as "this proposal requires a security analysis" so that anyone reading it might understand that it comes without proper analysis. Merging this in without it is a bit too suggestive.   
**S** - It's a strong point. Without addressing it more substantially I don't feel the proposal is complete. So I don't feel merging it (even as 'Draft') is the right option for now.   
**F** - Should we get Inigo from IO to have a look at it?  
**MPJ** - The proposer should figure out what they are trying to achieve: I feel what they are proposing is fundamentally unfeasible. The proposer must do some work to explain how they see this working (without it being problematic for the ecosystem)  
**S** - I agree also that this is not fully solveable, but it should be more explicit about how to handle it, despite the fact it cannot be fully solved, as MPJ notes, it still handles some cases and it's not bad to have a proposal that fits "most" usecases (rather than all). There should be some section covering those aspects, the out-of-band assets that don't match the described creation pattern.  
**MPJ** - will try to add a longer comment outlining the problem discussed in the PR.   
=> On Hold / Tabled [PR137 - tentative CIP 31: "On-Chain Token Metadata Standard"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/137) until further careful consideration take place  



#### Alonzo
[PR140 - tentative CIP 28: "Protocol Parameters (Alonzo)"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/140)  
**F** - this is the Alonzo protocol parameters from IO, an upgrade continuing on [CIP 9](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0009) (Shelley Protocol Parameters). This should be good to merge, with two approvals.. Any opposition regarding merging this?  
**S** - One of the problems with this one is that it is no longer accurate (as of last week) because the parameters were changed again - not sure who wants to handle this as it was changed in the middle of Alonzo (Block size increase). I don't know if we want to modify this here, or merge this and submit another CIP that mentions the size increase.   
**F** - From speaking with Kevin he was intent on the "Protocol Parameters CIPs" being about the initial potocol parameters, as in the parameters at the beginning of the fork itself, which sounds to me as though this one would be fine to merge as-is: I don't want to have to be chasing for the current parameters continuously afterwards. I would prefer merging it and/or seeing how Matthias feels about it.  
**S** - I don't think this is a technical decision, more like a "how do we want to structure these CIPs for Protocol Parameters that happen by epoch". Probably in an idea world, we should have merged this earlier and made a change to update it, and in this spirit would merge this as-is.. And then remind ourselves to do a follow-up CIP to this.  
**F** - Why do we need an update/upgrade CIP?  
**S** - Because the protocol parameter already changed.  
**F** - I don't see us as having to keep up with the parameters themselves, just a snapshot of the parameters at the time of the fork.  
**S** - I disagree, I think the protocol change parameters should have a CIP at least to discuss why changing the protocol parameter makes sense  
**MPJ** - I think this is a broader conversation (i.e. "Should protocol parameters changes go through a CIP or not?").   
=> On Hold / tabled for now, will continue conversation offband. (Likely merge and add a new CIP re:change)  

### Review  

#### CIP30
[PR148 - Update to CIP 30 (signData API)](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/148)   
**F** - The singData API update is a continuation of the conversation regarding the signData API for CIP30 which was tabled and doesn't seem to be evolving much. Thoughts? This seemed to be built out by Rob on his own and it seems to have leveled off a few weeks ago.  
**S** - I need to review this one but haven't had the time. I'm not sure if that will be feasible for next meeting either. For later.  
=> On Hold / Tabled (for next meeting?) [PR148](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/148)   

### Discussions  

#### Updates
(Looking at the [meeting 34 notes and the discussions](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/BiweeklyMeetings/2021-11-23.md) there)  
**S** - Haven't been able to follow up regarding moving [CIP 12](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0012) to 'Active' - Blockfrost ppl should be the ones to try to champion this.  
**F** - About [CIP 13](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0013) and the conversation..  
**S** - Daedalus wanted to make a big change to it and we didn't know about moving to 'Active' in the middle of somebody making a large change..  
**F** - Looking at the newer CIPs and the major discussions ongoing then. Potential CIP 31([PR159](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/159)) & 32([PR160](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/160)) & 33 ([PR161](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/161))?   
**MPJ** - Those three are series of CIPs that build on top of eachothers based on the design work happening. We hope they will alleviate the way some things are currently.  
**F** - What is the state of the conversation, any salient points?  
**MPJ** - A bit early - the PRs have been only out for a week, let's see what people say about these. In particular I would like to get the CDDL proposed / pinned down before we merge them   
**F** - Is that something you're working on through IO?  
**MPJ** - Yeah, with the Ledger team - I'm not a CDDL expert. I just want to make sure that it looks like for the Tx CDDL to look at.  
**S** - I commented on that point. The only thing you have to worry abotu the CDDL is that this is run through codegen tools and there's codegen tooling in Go and JS and both are not complete - but people have attempted to make them work. So any complex features would make it harder for the codegen tools to run, and if you don't provide name for fields, they get lost through the codegen process. It's a kind of art to write CDDL that codegens could code but at the end of the day (for the rust codebase) although we use the codegen process without having to work the kinks and end up having to manually fix issues because CDDL is a really bad language for codegen, it's not anything used so not a big deal.  
**MPJ** - It's not my favorite thing either.   
**S** - I wanted to talk about (tentative) CIP31/[PR159](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/159) the reference input CIP. One thing, the section on Hydra (it would be good to have Matthias sign off on that part - he's the expert here)  
**MPJ** - There was internal discussion about that, because Hydra makes a bunch of assumption such as the Tx set being a graph, but now it is  bit weird, it can be looked at multiple times, what happens when you have conflicts... Certainly before this is implemented I have asked Manuel to talk to the researchers and make sure that the algorithm in charge of resolving double spend inputs would also work for reference spend inputs. I think if we get an ok with that, then it's fine - but we have to be careful about so that we don't accidentally screw up Hydra.   
**S** - And for the ability to log reference: who we can use reference inputs? Is this something you've seen other people try to do or want to do or is that a thought?  
**MPJ** - Obviously, you have to be able to lock them to control who spends them. To control who references them, we'd need another script field probably, because you don't want it to be the same one for spending, it's possible in principle, I am a little hazy on clear usecases (and it can be added later), because it would be changes to the change of outputs, in some way othogonal to this, the main usecase I have seen is "someone who wants to have an oracle for people to pay if they look at the data"... I think there is something a little dubious about this because all the info on the blockchain is public in some way and you'd be in some way charging for this and or looking at the authenticity of the data.. I don't know. An earlier draft of this design had some variants of that, where you could reference input, such as a "check" input that would look at if you can spend but without having to spend it. It could be a version of that. The design here is a bit open - a few options in the design space and so am keen to gather more usecases and think about ways we could go there. I think something like that would be rather incompatible with what we have here. I don't think we are blocking ourselves from any approach we take to solve that.   
**S** - That's an interesting idea, to prove one can spend but won't spend... I can think of a usecase for that if you want to build a sidechain embedded into Cardano: one of the problems we had with that concept is you can't do a rollback because the UTXO is not spent and so we had an idea of building a virtual chain with data inputs and then people can come in and unvirtualize the team after a timeout period to turn it into a real chain if that makes sense.  
**MPJ** - Sounds quite complicated. For simpler cases, it also lets you prove that you own something. Suppose you have a token and don't need to actually spend it. For example an authorization token, which would let you authenticate, without spending, a minor efficiency saving. A bit like reference inputs in some ways, which lets you avoid churning lots of utxos but appart from that doesn't add that much utility.   
**S** - It would be useful for the virtual subchain embedded into Cardano because you would then be able to move the subchain states by proving you have the ability to do that but with a rollback it still exists, so you could build a fork.. I'll have to think about wether or not this is actually something worth thinking into.   
**MPJ** - yeah.   
**S** - In general for these kinds of "Plutus-related CIPs", do we want to tie these CIPs to changes in the Plutus core specifications, do we want to merge these CIPs and make the spec changes later? I felt for the ledger changes we were somewhat embbedding it into the CIP process.   
**MPJ** - I was mostly viewing this as a pre-specification document because then there wouldn't be a spec. I don't know. We could broacast a process for that. If you want anyone outside of IOG to make proposed changes to the ledger that's a very high bar, and then it would be reasonable to say you do the full specification set later. In essence since the changes to Plutus are really only in the interface to the ledger, the changes would appear in the ledger specs rather than in the Plutus specifcations. I am considering making a CIP that is a bit like the protocol parameters CIPs that contains the conditions for changes to Plutus and maybe a list of (for ex) a list of all the builtins that are in the current version or so on, to provide a clearer way for those changes to be made... future work.  
**S** - That would be great. And for the Reference script PR (158), haven't had time to read that one unfortunately.   
**S** - We should be able to make a decision on the only design points needed for this one (reference spec? PR158?). The problem we have right now is that we are trying to bridge between networks: i.e. Cardano and other chains. And when building bridges you need to build testnet version of the bridges  and so need to have some kind of protocol magic to be able to distinguish to which network this is bridging to and we have no standard to represent these protocol magic, so a standard way to represent these would be good to have so it can be embedded in packages and libraries and everything else. Some of the bridging software libraries on the ethereum all seem to reimplement KEIP2 that is linked in the PR and their standard prefixes the improvement proposal for your specific change as a way to do namespacing. In order to have the namespace for Cardano, we need to have an improvement proposal for Cardano that describes the format.  
**MPJ** - I guess the comment here is: would it be useful to have one CIP for the format and talk about a registry separately? as that would be a semi-centralized registry for this thing. The main thing even just to get started would be to describe that this is the format and how it could start  
**S** - We had the same discussion for other registries: a few exist in the CIP repo, there's the network registry, there's the chainID registry... I think there's another one and we've not been consistent for the chain registry we use json, for the other ones we embedded into the same CIP...  
**MPJ** - I guess it's up to you, the format part is likely less controversial.   
**S** - I'm ok with either options. I think for SLIPs they are all embedded into the CIP as well. I suppose the separate CIPs. Wether we want to cater to colon separators or something else. It's the minor trivial point but something we get to decide and be happy with. If anyone has strong preference in any direction, please make your voice heard. I am leaning toward not using BECH32 and just using a dash (as mentionned in the CIP in its current form). BECH32 feels good, but the checksum is a mistake in my opinion. The other point someone might disagree on would be the inclusion of the Genesis hash, as it was reset some two years ago and might not even matter if it ever happens again.   
**F** - Send that to next meeting - will add CIP number - 34 should be fine.   



### Close    

=> Minor Merges (such as [PR156](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/156), [PR166](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/166) )  
=> Extending conversation on [PR140 - tentative CIP 28: "Protocol Parameters (Alonzo)"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/140)  
=> Extending conversation on [PR137 - tentative CIP 31: "On-Chain Token Metadata Standard"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/137) to explore security concerns   

   

---
## Extra

### Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status

| #                 | Title                                                                                                                                         | Status                |
| ----------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1 | [CIP process](../CIP-0001/) | Active |
| 2 | [Coin Selection Algorithms for Cardano](../CIP-0002/) | Active |
| 3 | [Wallet key generation](../CIP-0003/) | Active |
| 4 | [Wallet Checksums](../CIP-0004/) | Draft |
| 5 | [Common Bech32 Prefixes](../CIP-0005/) | Draft |
| 6 | [Stake Pool Extended Metadata](../CIP-0006/) | Draft |
| 7 | [Curve Pledge Benefit](../CIP-0007/) | Proposed |
| 8 | [Message Signing](../CIP-0008/) | Draft |
| 9 | [Protocol Parameters](../CIP-0009/) | Draft |
| 10 | [Transaction Metadata Label Registry](../CIP-0010/) | Draft |
| 11 | [Staking key chain for HD wallets](../CIP-0011/) | Draft |
| 12 | [On-chain stake pool operator to delegates communication](../CIP-0012/) | Draft |
| 13 | [Cardano URI Scheme](../CIP-0013/) | Draft |
| 14 | [User-Facing Asset Fingerprint](../CIP-0014/) | Draft |
| 15 | [Catalyst Registration Transaction Metadata Format](../CIP-0015/) | Draft |
| 16 | [Cryptographic Key Serialisation Formats](../CIP-0016/) | Draft |
| 17 | [Cardano Delegation Portfolio](../CIP-0017/) | Active |
| 18 | [Multi-Stake-Keys Wallets](../CIP-0018/) | Draft |
| 19 | [Cardano Addresses](../CIP-0019/) | Active |
| 20 | [Transaction message/comment metadata](../CIP-0020/) | Active |
| 21 | [Transaction requirements for interoperability with hardware wallets](../CIP-0021/) | Draft |
| 22 | [Pool operator verification](../CIP-0022/) | Active |
| 23 | [Fair Min Fees](../CIP-0023/) | Draft |
| 24 | [Non-Centralizing Rankings](../CIP-0024/) | Draft |
| 25 | [NFT Metadata Standard](../CIP-0025/) | Draft |
| 26 | [Cardano Off-Chain Metadata](../CIP-0026/) | Draft |
| 27 | [CNFT Community Royalties Standard](../CIP-0027/) | Draft |
| 29 | [Phase-1 Monetary Scripts Serialization Formats](../CIP-0029/) | Draft |
| 30 | [Cardano dApp-Wallet Web Bridge](../CIP-0030/) | Draft |
| 1852 | [HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Wallets for Cardano](../CIP-1852/) | Draft |
| 1853 | [HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Stake Pool Cold Keys for Cardano](../CIP-1853/) | Draft |
| 1854 | [Multi-signatures HD Wallets](../CIP-1854/) | Draft |
| 1855 | [Forging policy keys for HD Wallets](../CIP-1855/) | Draft |

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)




