 **Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [June 29 2021 notes](#june-29-2021-notes)
  * [Triage](#triage)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
      + [PR66 / "Fair Min Fees"](#Followups)
      + [PR21 / "Non-Centralizing Rankings"](#Followups)
      + [PR96 / "Forging policy keys for HD Wallets"](#Forging-keys)
  * [Review](#review)
      + [PR85 / "NFT Metadata Standard"](#NFT)
      + [PR83 / "Multi-Stake-Keys Wallets"](#MSK-Wallets)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
      + [PR82 / "Cardano Delegation Portfolios"](#Delegation)
      + [PR86 / Update to CIP-0013: "Cardano URI Scheme"](#Delegation)
  * [Close](#close)
- [Extra](#extra)
  * [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](#current-cips-in-the-cip-repository-and-their-status)
  * [CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram](#cip-creation-process-as-a-sequence-diagram)
  * [Understanding CIPs further](#understanding-cips-further)

## Summary

Rough writeup of 6/29/21 Editors meeting notes taken during that day's CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Notes might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly), [recorded](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly) and [summarized](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

- [x] **Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  
- [x] **Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  
- [x] **New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  
PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
- [x] **Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  
- [x] **Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.  

## June 29 2021 notes 

**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Duncan Coutts~, Frederic Johnson. Editorial Guest: Robert Phair, Alessandro Konrad.  


### Triage  

### Last Check   

#### Followups
([PR66](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/66) - "Fair Min Fees")  
**Frederic** - Fair ammount of conversation occured. Shawn (PR author) has confirmed by email that he would like to push for this merged. A lot of the conversation about this has occured, including some from IO Research in comments (See Colin's comments) as well as a Blogpost by IOHK but some of the feedback.   
**Robert** - Colin's comment clarifies a lot of things for everyone: It's hard to argue against a minimum fixed fee if we can wait until a min variable fee comes on, because then that prevents the combination of people feeling compelled to have 0 minimum fixed fee as well as 0 minimum variable fees. I think that's what some of the SPOs were worried about, as a kind of "race to 0"/bottom. With the min variable fee requiring a change to the protocol, whereas the min fixed fee can be done any time but would be too early without also imposing a min variable fee.  
**Matthias** - Reminder: we can merge a CIP without it meaning it will be implemented. Merging a PR means it has been reviewed and is technically valid, but might still not get implemented.  
=> Merge NOW as a CIP-0023  

([PR21](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/21) - "Non-Centralizing Rankings")  
**M** - The main problem that people have with the current ranking system (which is also its main point in a way) is that it is not fair for pools "beyond" the **k** limit (the system is trying to establish homeostasis around k, fixed by the protocol -currently 500- and pools that are beyond k appear unprofiteable - this is by design as the system is trying to achieve "k" pools) Pools beyond k are punished quite severly in the rankings, such as appearing unprofiteable. What this proposal here is doing is smoothing a bit the transition beyond K so that there is no more hardcut, but it is smoother... If you are close to k, then you get less punished than if you are severly further out. It makes the transition a bit smoother.  
**R** - Happy to move this forward. Meanwhile (I don't know if it's within the scope of this PR but) if "ranking" is always showing for every pool, then it will have a centralizing effect. Ex: for pools outside of k=500, will users get flags about the "beyond k" pools? (even from following an external delegation link ala [cip 13](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0013/README.md)) there might be red flags and warning signs from the current discrimination, which would effectively centralize stakepools, and I want to go on record about this.  
**M** - Not sure the title aligns with the CIP though / this should be about "non-centralizing"... If you limit the number of stakepool then you are acting against decentralization. But we can adjust K if the goal is not acceptable, ex: from 500 to 2000 and such as needed - that was a bit the rationale about that. We have to find the sweet spot where you make most of the people happy and still achieve good decentralization?  
**R** - You might say something like "less abruptly centralizating rankings"? hard to put that into few works.  
**M** - It will not prevent having flags/warnings and still having a lot of incentives for having "less" than k pools because the entire system is designed around that... So if you really want to have "non-centralized rankings" then we probably need to rework the entire ranking system and not have that designed around k. And that's a totally different endeavor. I would agree with **R** and propose "less punitive rankings" as a better title. I would push for merging this as draft and then notify the author about the cosmetic changes.  
=> Merge NOW as CIP-0018  

#### Forging keys
([PR96](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/96) - "Forging policy keys for HD Wallets")  
**M** - The PR is straightforward - it's based on another proposal we've done around derivation paths. Here it's about agreeing on a specific HD path in the wallet to derive a set of keys, reserved for forging policies. People have so far been using arbitrary keys (generated on the fly, not attached to any wallets), or payment keys associated with their wallets, which is not necessarily good (You typically want to separate the activities such as 'payment' and 'forging policies' so that the security can be granularily adjusted). It's getting quite common to use 'purpose' for a new purpose. Only remark I had in there was a path in the file, which seem to be a copy/paste leftover. Beyond that, good PR.  
**S** - Last I looked, conceptually fine.  
=> Merge NOW as CIP-1855


### Review  


#### NFT
([PR85](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/85) - potential CIP: "NFT Metadata Standard")  
**Alessandro** - (PR Author) The Metadata Standard is meant not solely for images but any kind of mediafile. I made an update in the conversation about how I would propose to adjust it. (Looking at [conversation nested in a comment](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/85#discussion_r629120254)). There is this files" property, that is where you could specify any kind of mediatype you want. The basic idea about having "image" (field) separate is that nfts are 99% images already and the "image" field can double-function as a thumbnail. There are mediafiles like video or 3d models that you could have as nfts, yet most wallets would likely not display those properly. Here an "image" would enable a better UX for representation. SO two functionalities - it could either be a thumbnail, or the actual Image. The 'files' property meanwhile is an array where you might even put multiple files in there. That's the general idea. My issue with schema.org is that I'm not sure how to put that in because this is not only one type of medium: there are multiple mediums in there...  
**M** - You mention that you want types beyond images: [schema.org](https://schema.org/) actually provides json schemas for a lot of different media contents, not only images. And for each of those schema types - I think they have all the possible fields you could imagine on such a schema - The idea is not to require all those fields, but (if you have a list of files) you must have at least as the first type, the **type of object** that you are going to use, and then the rest of the schema will fall from the definition on schema.org, which gives you a broad level of extensibility. For example if the object type is image, then you know that any of the other fields might be present. And maybe we could specify some 'fields' to be mandatory and have applications relying on that, for example the exact mediatype for the iamge - jpeg, png, whatever... That was my past suggestion: let's rely on something that is battle-tested and has been proved to work as json schemas, but maybe for a few handpicked mediatypes require some fields to be mandatory. For example image, "at least X,Y,Z,.."  
**A** - The issue is that there are already nonstandard NFT projects out there, such as with a not-very-normal mediatype where the image is created out of a piece of code and the code is embedded in the metadata. I don't think (that for something like this) there is something on Schema.org... So we probably would have to support both cases.  
**M** - I wouldn't be so formal, there are lots of different types. Creative content/Code might fit in some of the existing categories.  
**R** - Schema.org would also provide / an already agreed-upon framework for representing ownership, as well as objects that may not be pieces of data, representing real-world objects (people, events, other). There are many usecases for NFTs beyond digital.  
**M** - There is actually a  "software sourcecode" datatype... Plus also as Robert mentions,  all the other (extra) properties that come on other schemas.  
**A** - There are already a lot of projects following this standard/CIP: If we want to add schema.org style, maybe we could move that towards a v2.0 so we can support both still?  
**M** - That would work. About the 'image' field with the double functionality: for a Standard you might expect everything to have (only) one purpose, that's why I propose to move it to 'thumbnail', so that has one singular purpose (and use 'files' to store the actual image data).  
**A** - It's not only for thumbnails though. If you want to make a very simple NFT (an image), you can just use the name and the actual image and THAT is the actual NFT.  
**M** - You could use the name and under 'files' have the actual image NFT itself. From an application standpoint everything is then more consistent, You only have a single way to process NFTs there (otherwise you always need to have a special case for 'images')  
**A** - So you would add the same file under 'files' as well as under 'image'?  
**M** - Yes: I would rather put the NFT content under 'files' because that's where the actual NFT goes. If the specification says "your NFT file goes in the 'files' property" then there shouldn't be a special case for image. If you want to have a thumbnail for the image it can still be created. Any application reading this can treat it in a consistent and singular manner to consume/handle. It eases the consumption/processing of that NFT. It doesn't make it much more complicated, but it makes it easier for the application consumers.  
**A** - For the end-user it might be a bit weird to have to put the same object twice.  
**M** - That's a UI problem, not a end-user problem. The user doesn't really care about the NFT format. The format here is meant to be digested by machines, not by humans. If it is not really appealing to humans that's not really a big deal so long as it is easy to process by a program.  
**A** - This could work. I think that sounds fine as a tentative future v2.0  (schema.org, thumbnail...)  
**M** - If everyone is already aligned with the current v1.0 as-is, no point changing yet. But it sounds good as a v2.0.  
**A** - Another question around the mediatype/MIMEtype. Is that something that needs to be added?  
**M** - No - I would rather go with the actual object name itself (on schema.org). A bunch of specific types are listed on the main page - either name of the type or just a link to the schema.org page that contains all the propoerties of that type. Maybe feasible to even have it directly to a json schema (link), so you might even download the schema and validate against it if you have to (for an application).  
**F** - Regarding PR85 - prior point was that usecase that it is starting to establish some kind of standard, should we merge or continue to review?  
**M** - Suggest merging it as-is, it's being used (plus Alessandro might open a new PR towards a v2.0).  
**A** - I still need to merge in the latest comments.  
**R** - Can you possibly include also a roadmap to 2.0 to hear what you're thinking about (users might want to select wether to stay with v1.0 or x.0 ..)?  
**A** - Can add.  
=> Alessandro to add changes, Moving to 'Last-Check' for the next meeting.  


#### MSK Wallets
([PR83](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/83) - potential CIP: "Multi-Stake-Keys Wallets")  
**M** - There has been a lot of interest around the ideas of multi-delegation, portfolio stuff and such. This PR is actually the CIP introducing multidelegation and its stakekeys (not the portfolio one that focuses on the format itself of the protfolio). I was thinking with Johannes about how we could do multidelegation on the wallet in a safe manner. Because that isn't actually a trivial problem and is why multidelegation has taken quite a long to come for Cardano - it isn't something that can be implemented at the protocol level currently, it has to a burden handled at the client/wallet level. For wallets to maintain multiple stakekeys can be cumbersome because the keys have to be managed independantly, and you have this whole mess of key registration/ delegation/deregistration etc... So once you have created an address and you put a stake key inside the address, that is fixed: that stake key will be in that address forever. The only way you can change the stake rights of the funds associated to that address is by changing the delegation settings of the stake key. But you can only delegate to a singular pool per stake key, and you cannot put multiple stake keys in an address, which means the wallet must do some form of key management, of rebalancing of its UTXOs (Cardano being a UTXO-based blockchain, we don't have the freedom accounts-based chains have, picking arbitrary ammounts and buckets of Txs). Here we have to select a particular number of UTXOs that have particular values and assign them to different pools. You can't arbitrarily fragment or defragment your UTXOs to adjust accordingly, but that's all work that goes on through wallets, and when you do that you also have this problem of the blockchain being a completely decentralized system. Many people today have more than one wallet, using Yoroi + Deadalus or Apple lite... there are many entry points to the system, doing modifications concurrently, and chain forks (especially in Ouroboros Praos), every 4 or 5 blocks there are forks with leaders getting elected on the same block which means (from a wallet standpoint) if you send a Tx, your Tx might get rolled back after a few blocks. It might get further inserted in the ledger and later disappear. If you are not too careful about your registration, and you want to be able to fully recover the state of your wallet from the blockchain state, you have to be very careful on how you activate chains of deregistration, because any of them might actually disappear because there would be a rollback on the chain fork. The true immutability is quite long on Praos at the moment - around 36 hours, beyond which you can be sure there won't be a rollback: the maximum length of the fork is fixed by the protocol. One of the first proposals touching multisig stakekeys proposed to wait 36 hours between each key registration, and was a poor UX of sorts. Even though you're not creating new keys constantly, you might want to do this a few times in short span when managing:  delegating to a pool, changing your mind, switching to a different pool or other - waiting 36 hours between changes was poor experience.Because we already have a mechanism that makes sure that everything is sequentialized and cannot end up in a corrupt state: The UTXO model itself. So here one of the pain point can therefore become an advantage and guarantee ordering - The idea is to attach a particular UTXO to every stake key registration (or deregistration) so that there is ever only one UTXO that is consumed every time and passes from one registration to the next. It would contain only 1 ada, have no value except the minimum and is consumed by every registration such that if any (previous) registration gets rolled back, then each subsequent registrations are automatically invalidated as consuming a UTXO that no longer exist. Like that you enforce that what you see on the chain is really reflecting the state of your wallets. And there is no more risk on the (?)external or anything. If have two wallets at the same time doing key management or registration and submiting conflicting Txs, in the end the ledger itself will make sure that only one of the transactions goes through as only one UTXO can be consumed. For creating that special UTXO, we have also chosen a custom derivation path that isn't confliction with other payment keys of the wallet, such that the UTXO cannot be consumed inadvertently by the wallet during its normal operation, and for wallets that don't implement THAT CIP and meanwhile implement CIP-1852 (like most wallets today), then it's completely transparent and this won't interfere with the wallet activity. If the wallet then chooses to implement multi-stakekey delegation then they can implement that and use the special UTXO. This is this CIP - there were some questions in there already from Marcel Clamer which made me think that we might be able to clarify some things in the CIP itself, such as "Why" / "Why use a UTXO like that" I thought this was clear but apparently not enough - I will loop back and  update on the PR and clarify some points, plus also translate the diagram Johannes is pointing to into something a bit more acceptable for the CIP. We have a first implementation going on in the wallet, which has so far been successfully tested on a harnet prototype. This is being finalized and also comforts us in the sense that this is indeed doable and works as we expect. There has been quite some extensive testing done on that with various scenarios - creating concurrent requests ... and we are now pretty sure this resolves the problems we might have with concurrency and a decentralized system.  
**S** - Everything said makes logical sense.  
**M** - I want to get some of the insights from Marcel's comments in there, such as making the intent clear and capturing some of the reasons in the body of the content. I would maybe prefer to review it again next time.  
**F** - we're getting a bit crowded on the review space. Would move to 'Last Check' to leave room for other CIPs to be reviewed.  
=> Moved to 'Last Check'  



### Discussions  


#### Delegation
([PR82](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/82) - potential CIP-0017: "Cardano Delegation Portfolio")  
([PR86](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/86) / Update to CIP-0013: "Cardano URI Scheme")   
**R** - (About the Delegation conversation and Robert's outreach to the SPOs). Everyone knows about the conversations, there were 3 meetings - the first meeting (with SPOs) was on the 10th, then Frederic came on to the following meeting (two weeks later) mentioning the PRs, and I also met with SPOCRA (grouping of the large pools). The people who actually might need this CIP the most might not be in the SPOCRA meeting I attended then, so not a representative sampling of the pools. But longtime members were supportive of the process, the threads, that they know they can contribute on, also in github conversations. I think they are very practical-oriented people, and so are looking more at CIPs to align with a timeline, with some expectation of accountability. Which doesn't seem to sit well with the current iteration of what the CIP framework is for (more towards a standards body). Here's a link of how the SPOs are currently discussing it in their own forums, so any member of the community or orgs, anyone is welcome to join and follow how the issues are currently being presented to the SPO community (I have agreed to give them an update every few weeks on CIP and governance). Meanwhile IOHK's Daniel Ribar posted about "Catalyst Circle" while SPOCRA told me that IOHK brought this to a governance agency that came up with the plan for Catalyst Circle. It is a little bit toned down from what they initially recomended. From that same quarter they have issued some statement about this and Catalyst Circle being the first governance process within Cardano, there might be questions why they skipped the CIP process - I think it looks like two standards group emerging, see Daniel Ribar's post on the cardano forum. As these things evolve, we have links in both direction and all the people that we have mentioned in all those forums feel comfortable coming observe and discuss.  
**F** - Any preference or news about the PR conversation?  
**R** - All the people I spoke with say they would welcome both proposals merged in. On the surface they feel both are valid and would need to be there.  
**F** - The consensus we're looking for is that we're ok merging these concurently...  
**M** - Moving to Last Check would be fine.  
=> Moved Both to 'Last Check'   



### Close      

=> Merge (**ASAP**) as CIP-0023 (Draft) - [PR66 - "Fair Min Fees"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/66)  
=> Merge (**ASAP**) as CIP-0024 (Draft) - [PR21 - "Non-Centralizing Rankings"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/21)  
=> Merge (**ASAP**) as CIP-1855 (Draft) - [PR96 - "Forging policy keys for HD Wallets"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/96)  
=> Move to **Last Check** - [PR85 - “NFT Metadata Standard”](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/85) - potential 'CIP-0020’)  
=> Move to **Last Check** - [PR83 - “Multi Stake Keys Wallets”](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/83) - potential 'CIP-0018’)  
=> Move to **Last Check** - [PR82 & PR86 - stakepool delegation PRs](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/82)  


---
## Extra

### Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status

| #                 | Title                                                                                                                                         | Status                |
| ----------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1                 | [CIP Process](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001)                                                                | Active                |
| 2                 | [Coin Selection Algorithms](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0002)                                                  | Draft                 |
| 3                 | [Wallet key generation](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0003)                                                      | Draft                 |
| 4                 | [Wallet Checksum](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0004)                                                            | Draft                 |
| 5                 | [Common Bech32 Prefixes](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0005)                                                     | Draft                 |
| 6                 | [Stake Pool Extended Metadata](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0006)                                               | Draft                 |
| 7                 | [Curve Pledge Benefit](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0007)                                                       | Draft                 |
| 8                 | [Message Signing](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0008)                                                            | Draft                 |
| 9                 | [Initial Parameters](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0009)                                                         | Draft                 |
| 10                | [Transaction Metadata Label Registry](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0010)                                        | Draft                 |
| 11                | [Staking key chain for HD wallets](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0011)                                           | Draft                 |
| 12                | [On-chain stake pool operator to delegates communication](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0012)                    | Draft                 |
| 13                | [Cardano URI Scheme](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0013)                                                         | Draft                 |
| 14                | [User-facing Asset Fingerprint](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0014)                                              | Draft                 |
| 15                | [Catalyst Registration Transaction](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0015)                                          | Draft                 |
| 16                | [Cryptographic Key Serialisation Formats](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0016)                                    | Draft                 |
| 19                | [Cardano Addresses](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0019)                                                          | Draft                 |
| 1852              | [HD Wallets for Cardano](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-1852)                                                     | Draft                 |
| 1853              | [HD Stake Pool Cold Keys](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-1853)                                                    | Draft                 |
| 1854              | [Multi-signatures HD Wallets](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-1854)                                                | Draft                 |


:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](./sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)




