 **Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [November 9 2021 notes](#november-9-2021-notes)
  * [Triage](#triage)
      + [PR88 - "DApp Connector"](#DApp-Connector)
      + [PR116 - "Royalty Standard"](#Royalty-Standard)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
      + [PR112 - "Offchain Metadata"](#offchain-metadata)
  * [Review](#review)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Close](#close)
- [Extra](#extra)
  * [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](#current-cips-in-the-cip-repository-and-their-status)
  * [CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram](#cip-creation-process-as-a-sequence-diagram)
  * [Understanding CIPs further](#understanding-cips-further)

## Summary

Rough writeup of 11/09/21 Editors meeting notes taken during that day's CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Notes might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly), [recorded](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly) and [summarized](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

- [x] **Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  
- [x] **Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  
- [x] **New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  
PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
- [x] **Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  
- [x] **Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.  

## November 9 2021 notes 

**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Duncan Coutts, Sebastien Guillemot, Frederic Johnson, Robert Phair. + guests.


### Triage  

#### Royalty Standard
[PR116 - "Standardization of Royalties"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/116)  
**Frederic** - This tentative CIP is by [HuthS0lo](https://github.com/huths0lo)  
**HuthS0lo** - This is a community-based standard based on a conversation started a couple months back prior to the implementation of smart-contracts. We worked together, pooled ideas and met as a group to take decisions on what might be the best implementation for the community and once that got solidified, the PR was finalized. If you look in the PR history, you can see it has changed a lot compared to where it is today - and a lot of that has to do with protecting people around NFTs, and essentially now the marketplaces will only honor the royalties defined in the first transaction - the reason for that is that we don't want people to be swindled at a later time (by changing royalties). By doing that we ensure that people cannot modify the royalties. A lot of significant individuals were involved in those conversations - CNFT.io, Artano... That's how we got to now, happy to discuss specifics, but this should be straightforward: we defined the specific metadata we would be looking for, and again it would be on the very first mint for a policy.   
**F** - We previously set this as a 'Triage' item, there were minor tweaks requested, but otherwise is it in need of verification?  
**Matthias** - I noticed something around the address in the metadata - I don't see any reason to add the address in Bech32 encoding since it's something that will end up on the blockchain anyway: it is causing issues because it goes over the 64 bytes length for the address, so I am suggesting here instead to encode the address as plain bytes (since it can be at most 59 bytes and would therefore always fit). That would also get rid of potential problems of having two representations for the metadata..  
**H** - I don't have a problem with that per se, but a lot of that is based on the assumption that we wanted this to be simple for people to implement - I don't think the average person will be able to do that (the average person creating a NFT), plus this adds complication for marketplaces who'd have to extrapolate what the address should be. We're looking for simplicity, this is kinda going against the design the group was going for.  
**Mateja** - Why do we have 'rate' and 'address' as a string and not 'address:percentage'? What is the necessity to have rate and address as strings when we know that they would be key-values pairs / the actual value of the rate?  
**H** - This is what Clark was talking about - the original design is just two things, the address and the rate, nothing more.  
**M** - That is what I am saying, put the address on the left side, put the rate on the right side. That's just a suggestion.  
**M** - That would make sense but then you still have 'too long an address' issue on the key and you would have to account for that.  
**H** - In the proposal you could do an array if you have an address that extend beyond 64 bytes..  
**Matthias** - Looking from the human perspective we want to look at the json and understand, but jspon is meant for machines. People writing metadata will use tooling and libraries to do so. And libraries will do the convertion between Bech32 and Hex and whatever is needed here / whatever is needed. I don't think this makes it much more complicated, however having to worry about two potential different formats for the metadata will add complexity, to check if a string, to recompose the address correctly: There is something wrong with that.  
**H** - We can't make everybody happy, we've had a lot of people that had oppositions and requests... We meant this to be something that is community driven and voted upon and it is ALREADY being used, there has already been 1000s of tokens.  
**Mateja** - The standard has not been approved though. Maybe we can touch to why it might be a problem right now:
Here, you have to mint a new token as soon as there is a new policy  
**H** - But that is what you want to do..  
**Mateja** - Let's say you want to donate to charity X, then charity Y, and collaborate with Z, then you have multiple policies. Imagine thousands of policies being created on Cardano. Then all the marketplace have to validate all those policies. That they don't know..   
**H** - I understand what you are saying but you aren't offering any better solution on the table.  
**F** - This is a singular proposal and there is room for other proposals with different kind of implementations - any merging does not imply acceptance or endorsement by IO, CF or Emurgo. Is this PR good structure good to go, or are there strong opposition to this being moved along (as it has been discussed multiple times)   
**Mateja** - There are strong oppositions from Artano and others in the space...  
**Matthias** - There are no technical problems with using the string here, I don't think it's the right decision to make, because the alternative would simplify a lot of things for tools and applications.   
**F** - This would only be merging the CIP as a 'Draft' - the conversation can continue then.  
**M** - There was also a bit about the changelog at the end which I don't think is necessary, could use GIT rather. This is why we use version control and have a lot of the comments in the repo. Maybe rather use better commit messages in the changelog, could use better standardized messages rather than the H2 titles, which would look off in the auto-gen site.  
**F** - We can continue the conversation once merged, but worth moving this one along as it has been approved by Duncan and Sebastien already. Proceeding.  
  
=> Merge NOW [PR116](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/116)  


#### DApp Connector
[PR88 - "DApp Connector"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/88)  
**Frederic** - This was discussed at length during prior Editors meeting [#30](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/BiweeklyMeetings/2021-09-21.md), [#31](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/BiweeklyMeetings/2021-10-05.md) and [#32](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/BiweeklyMeetings/2021-10-19.md).  
**Rooooooob** - I've recently removed the event API because we figured it was better to do that as a separate change later on. The only outstanding issue is the datasign endpoint. Alessandro and I had a discussion in the PR but have not seen other opinions. Currently in the specs the datasign endpoint is very vague, so we are thinking of making it a lot simpler, where it would use the CIP-0008 message signing spec but would use it in a very simplified way: the wallet would take the payload and construct cost-compliant objects from that. It seems Alessandro and I are on the same page, if no opposing opinions would assume that it would be fine to merge it in.  
**F** - Might be better in a separate PR?  
**R** - What is currently in the PR is not well defined for endpoint. Since no one else has had an opinion in the conv. & Alessandro and I are on the same page about it (and came up with a well defined change about it) would you recommend we take out the endpoint bit as a separate PR?  
**F** - I think we could merge this PR as 'Draft' and have a separate PR for signdata endpoint.  
**Matthias** - As a suggestion, just before merging leave a note in the endpoint section stating that "this section is currently being worked on (and should be updated in an upcoming PR)" and bring the conversation in that PR. I am still catching up to this conversations but it doesn't preclude this PR being merged as it is.  
**Sebastien** - I would like to merge this sooner than later, because there are changes we will have to make for Alonzo, for the events (ex NAMI supports events) but that should be its own discussion. We still have to discuss how to allow websites to ask the user Which DApp connector they want to use... We did some of it where we added the name and logo inside the injected data, but this isn't in the injected data, which doesn't help much the website get all the logos and names.  
**R** - Don't they already have acccess to the information they need? Sure you could add some library on top of that that the DApp could use.. But couldn't they just inject the cardano object (and have the list of all names and data..)?  
**S** - No because every wallet will override the entire cardano object. Right now NAMI override the Cardano Object.  
**R** - I thought they would just insert a field?  
**M** - There was the question of namespacing it at some point...  
**R** - But that's already namespaced in the Spec, it's been in there for quite a while, this change was done months ago.   
**S** - I don't know people implementing this, but I can try to force people to move to this.  
**R** - The current Yoroi implementation has moved to this at the very least, I am not sure about any other implementation like NAMI or other, I'll have to take a look at that.   
**S** - I can tell you for a fact that they (NAMI?) are just overriding.  
**M** - I see, it's mentionned in the initial API Intro that states that the wallet has to use their wallet name as a namespace, but then the API is given as wallet.enable, wallet.whatever.. Which is not really clear that this has to be the wallet name and not the **word** wallet.. Perhaps we could use curly braces around the word to show that it's templated?  
**S** - Point being is that we should have these other discussions in separate PRs, and would prefer this be merged today.  
**F** - Thanks for adjusting the dir structure, and adding checks in the PR to move this forward. Once we have the 3 signoffs this should be good to go, and conversations can reference this PR if needs be (notably for the discussion in the PR itself)  

=> Merge NOW [PR88](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/88) 

### Last Check   
  
#### Offchain Metadata 
[PR112 - "Cardano Offchain Metadata"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/112)  
**M** - Nothing has changed since last few weeks and it was discussed with Michael (Peyton-Jones). We had a few iterations and removed some sections that were redundant. It hasn't changed in a month or so.  
**F** - Any objection to merging, else this will be merged.  

=> Merge ASAP [PR112](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/112)  


### Review  

### Discussions  

#### Alternate CNFT Royalty format
**F** - Mateja can you elaborate on the disconnect or distinction with the prior [PR116 - "Standardization of Royalties"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/116)?  
**Mateja** - What our problem is right now is that the space is sortof skewed towards big (NFT) collections, the "10k's" and similar. What that doesn't account for is the '1-of-1' artists, who want to make unique pieces. For example we have artists who are going to sell for 10s of thousands of dollars one piece, and they don't want to have to scroll through 100000s policies just to find the right royalty they want to put on this NFT. There's a signature for the artist and a royalty policy dealing with funding. We want to find a way to decouple the artist signature and the royalties/policyID somehow. It's also burning the approval process, so if you have more policyIDs just for the sake of creating royalties, you will have more problems with marketplaces like CNFT.io: they need the policyID in order to prove specific projects.. So if you have more '1-of-1's which Artano will bring for sure (we have already 200+ NFTs in one collection, with 70 artists and each artist wants their own policy, which isn't a problem, but likely doesn't scale, and THAT is our problem. I understand that there is a skew towards not burning, the UTXO issues, and having the least text attached to the NFT itself... There might be better way to solve this but right now as we see it, the current prior PR linked is an overkill, and favors having one policy for many NFTs, which is not necessarily desireable for every creator.  
**Sandeep** - Let me add: the current CIP since the address is specified in the policy level, it makes it difficult to use skipaddress, our smart contracst, because the first token that we mint on that policy already requires the address which means we don't have flexibility to have more. The issue is with the smart-contract: we need to have a script address or a smart-contract address **before** we mint any of the NFTs, because according to this (CIP) standard, the first one that is minted is the royalty token, which needs an address, and all tokens minted afterwards and keys, will all use that royalty address. That means the tokens that are minted afterwards, we don't have any flexibility to have this logic incorporated in the smart contract specified in the policy itself. Because the smart-contract for the royalties has to be already created, at least we would need the script hash to obtain an address. It does not give up the flexibility to define the royalty logic for (individual) NFTs which is not good when you are doing collaborations, like in our case in ARTano. Let's say we are doing a collection with  10 artists. For each artists, we'd want to transfer different NFTs, so royalties for different policies. Whoever is the owner of that particular NFT.  
We could create different royalty policies for each individually, but I think it would be cumbersome / not flexible. What would be a common ground? We could specify the same metadata that is specified in the royalty token. We could put that also in the NFT yourself and give precedent to the royalty that is present in the NFT over the policy. It could be something like "If there is metadata present in the NFT, then it takes precedent - else it defaults to the policy metadata" - it could also work regarding smart-contract because we don't have to know, we don't have to define the logic for the royalty smart-contract before we mint any token. To me that doesn't make sense.  
Regarding updating metadata, this is NFT the one you want, we don't mint it anymore. I don't understand the part about overriding the metadata. That was one of the arguments in the previous CIP in a previous meeting, when we were talking about the royalties, we were noting the metadata could be overwritten as NFT. And because everything is in the blockchain we could always check what it was at that time. In short, we would prefer having individual level granularity control rather than covering groups, so that when you see the policy in the blockchain, you can see all the NFTs associated with that artist, which makes more sense in our view rather than have a growing number of policies.   
**F** - Thanks for the explanation, it sounds as though you have a valid (new) proposal emerging. Any other opinions that should be surfaced?  
**Duncan** - I don't have a strong opinion, but if people have different usecases and different solutions, it is perfectly fine to have different CIPs with different purposes, one optimized for people doing large NFT collections, and a different approach for smaller collections. I don't see issues with that.   
**F** - Is there a PR being in the works for this Sandeep? I saw a forum post linked...  
**Sandeep** - We don't have a PR yet, can create one and discuss more publicly.   
**F** - Unless if you prefer to engage more in the forum or elsewhere if wanting to engage with CNFT actors and preferences directly.  

#### CIP Directory format tweaks
**Matthias** - I was pointing at PR125, which is not a CIP per say but a restructuring of the repository per say, which has a few merge conflicts but could be updated if relevant. The idea was to move all the CIP files naming and to update at the same time for the autogen site, which is functionally similar to the github UI and a readme rendering. If we want to proceed, I think we should move this sooner rather than later as the CIP repo is getting more and more traction, people are getting into it. Most folks land on the Github repo page which is fine. If you hit a deadlink you should still find you way back to the CIP github. I can also update the PR to touch all the CIPs that were merged since.  
**F** - Agreeing in spirit - but I was surprised that more than expected users were actually using cips.cardano.org. The breaking of the site might be something to prevent, but yes it would be in our interest to move the structure of the repo in that way.  
**M** - What might be a bit tricky is the linking to the prior files that would be renamed (the site should be easy). One way to do would be to preserve the old CIPs and duplicate as readme. And enforce the new format from then on. Then all the new CIPs would be in the new structure.   
**F** - Want to move this forward for better UX if we can translate that with the site this should be good.  
**M** - Not afraid of the website, it's more about the linking directly into github.   
**F** - Do you mean people referencing the markdown file in Github? As opposed to what?   
**M** - Right, then you can just link directly to the repository subdir rather than the file itself. and the markdown would render still. This (minor PR) is the kind of PR that is difficult to maintain because it changes as soon as someone pushes a new PR, so if we're ok to proceed, I will update and we should try to merge it ASAP and if not ok I can close and we stay with current structure.  
**D** - I think the idea is fine, breaking links is not a major issue either way.   

#### Looking for Community involvement
**F** - Also wanted to flag that we are looking for people from the community to join and participate in the CIP Editorial process - Come join, promote, help curate and help surface transparency, facilitate conversation on forums etc... We do not yet have an onboarding process to editorship, but this effort is intently neutral, and your stepping up is very much welcome.  
**D** - On that note, I will be stepping down for a few months (from CIP Editorship), so this meeting will be my last meeting for a while. I will ask for individuals from IOHK to step up - yet the general point is quite true.   

#### CNFT and royalties
**Clark** - I (and people that I have been talking to) want to express some concerns regarding the current CIP here (27) where they say it's a bit inflexible and one of the things that it is inflexible about is that under the same PolicyID the artist can configure different settings of their royalties for each token for example by just that alone and forcing to mint a new policyID where some artist has some opinion that a single PolicyID acts as signature, that's why some projects choose to collaborate and just stick to one, and also keep up single policyID open to mint more of their art - In summary, this current CIP does not support those usecases at all.   
**F** - a new proposed standard might be a good path to cater to those usecases.   
**HuthS0lo** - To your guys point it's by design, it's meant to be inflexible / to protect the buyer - a buyer has the right to know what they are getting into when they buy a NFT - with apps implementing CIP-0027, buyers are protected from changing policies post-purchase. It's meant to be inflexible and immutabe. It's not going to make everybody happy.   
**C** - I agree with the immutability and the not screwing ppl over but I think that NFT projects have this concept.. for example some artist leaves the policyID unlocked meaning that users buying this NFT trust this Artist to not duplicate their work or other weird stuff. If that's valid then why bring it up to the user of the NFT?  
**H** - We can allow it for one person but not for multiple ppl that migth use it for nefarious uses, that is the whole point. We did not have royalties prior to this.   
**C** - If someone changes their royalty from 1% to the 100%, the user can see the change and (that user) was duped..   
**H** - I'm confused, not sure what you want.   
**F** - (Suggest the forum be used to elaborate and go into its own proposal).   




### Close    

=> **Merged** as CIP-0030 (Draft) - [PR88 / CIP30 - "Cardano dApp-Wallet Web Bridge"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0030)  
=> **Merged** as CIP-0027 (Draft) - [PR116 / CIP27 - "CNFT Community Royalties Standard"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0027)  
=>  Merge ASAP (needs 1 more editor approval on PR) [PR112 / CIP26 - "Cardano Off-Chain Metadata"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/112)   

   

---
## Extra

### Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status

| #                 | Title                                                                                                                                         | Status                |
| ----------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1 | [CIP process](../CIP-0001/) | Active |
| 2 | [Coin Selection Algorithms for Cardano](../CIP-0002/) | Draft |
| 3 | [Wallet key generation](../CIP-0003/) | Draft |
| 4 | [Wallet Checksums](../CIP-0004/) | Draft |
| 5 | [Common Bech32 Prefixes](../CIP-0005/) | Draft |
| 6 | [Stake Pool Extended Metadata](../CIP-0006/) | Draft |
| 7 | [Curve Pledge Benefit](../CIP-0007/) | Draft |
| 8 | [Message Signing](../CIP-0008/) | Draft |
| 9 | [Protocol Parameters](../CIP-0009/) | Draft |
| 10 | [Transaction Metadata Label Registry](../CIP-0010/) | Draft |
| 11 | [Staking key chain for HD wallets](../CIP-0011/) | Draft |
| 12 | [On-chain stake pool operator to delegates communication](../CIP-0012/) | Draft |
| 13 | [Cardano URI Scheme](../CIP-0013/) | Draft |
| 14 | [User-Facing Asset Fingerprint](../CIP-0014/) | Draft |
| 15 | [Catalyst Registration Transaction Metadata Format](../CIP-0015/) | Draft |
| 16 | [Cryptographic Key Serialisation Formats](../CIP-0016/) | Draft |
| 17 | [Cardano Delegation Portfolio](../CIP-0017/) | Draft |
| 18 | [Multi-Stake-Keys Wallets](../CIP-0018/) | Draft |
| 19 | [Cardano Addresses](../CIP-0019/) | Active |
| 20 | [Transaction message/comment metadata](../CIP-0020/) | Active |
| 21 | [Transaction requirements for interoperability with hardware wallets](../CIP-0021/) | Draft |
| 22 | [Pool operator verification](../CIP-0022/) | Active |
| 23 | [Fair Min Fees](../CIP-0023/) | Draft |
| 24 | [Non-Centralizing Rankings](../CIP-0024/) | Draft |
| 25 | [NFT Metadata Standard](../CIP-0025/) | Draft |
| 27 | [CNFT Community Royalties Standard](../CIP-0027/) | Draft |
| 29 | [Phase-1 Monetary Scripts Serialization Formats](../CIP-0029/) | Draft |
| 30 | [Cardano dApp-Wallet Web Bridge](../CIP-0030/) | Draft |
| 1852 | [HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Wallets for Cardano](../CIP-1852/) | Draft |
| 1853 | [HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Stake Pool Cold Keys for Cardano](../CIP-1853/) | Draft |
| 1854 | [Multi-signatures HD Wallets](../CIP-1854/) | Draft |
| 1855 | [Forging policy keys for HD Wallets](../CIP-1855/) | Draft |

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)




