**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [August 02 2022 Transcript](#august-02-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [CIP-0027? | Fix status header](#pr214)
    + [CIP-0030? | Added walletExperimentalApiVersion](#pr225)
    + [CIP-0045? | Decentralization: Using Pledge as a Bidding Param](#pr229)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](#pr242)
    + [CIP-0062? | Governance API for dApp Connectors (dApps<->Wallet Web-bridge)](#pr296)     
    + [CIP-0068? | Datum Metadata Standard](#pr299)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 02/08/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significance to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## August 02 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Frederic Johnson~, ~Robert Phair~. 
**Guests**: ~Morgan Thomas~, Michael Liesenfelt

### Triage

#### PR214
[PR214 CIP-0027? | Fix status header](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/214)

**Matthias** -: Yes. So we're looking into that one. It's a pretty old one, I think. Yeah, ninth, February. It was just changing the status of a CIP number 27, which I think is... And debated here, not the CIP, but the fact that this is an active CIP nowadays, there have been people disagreeing with that standard and coming up with new standards, which is also fine. But as far as we are concerned, it's indeed active. So there is no problem with the change for me. Robert has approved. The only thing is we will also need to update the top-level README, with that to reflect it. So we can do this as part of a recent PR updating the README and yeah, just get to move on with this particular one, unless you, I don't know, have something to say Sebastien. But-

**Sebastien** -: No.

#### PR225
[PR225 CIP-0030? | Added walletExperimentalApiVersion](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/225)

**Matthias** -: Nope. So let's go. I'm just merging that and I will do the README update in the other PR, which is PR  #311, just for the record. And okay, next one, also a quite old one. CIP 30 Wallet experimental API version.

**Anthony**-: Okay. Apologies. Sorry. I'm behind you. All right. Excellent. Let me just launch this one up here.

**Matthias** -: Let me also watch the stream. Yeah. Well I guess that's one of those lingering CIPs for which we have no news from the author, probably came from a discussion. They made a change to the CIP 30, I think Sebastian response is...

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. Because the problem with this one is that the way they're doing it is different from the way Eternl did this.

**Matthias** -: Yeah.

**Sebastien** -: So somebody needs to decide how they want to resolve this mismatch.

**Matthias** -: So do you think we should pull Marcel in the discussion or-

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. We can try and ping them or sell it to them and see if they want to resolve this or if they want to drop the CIP. They need to figure this out.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I mean, since there has been no activity for four months on that one, I would assume it's probably being dropped. So I would just ping, Ruslan and maybe Marcel to see if they have anything to comment.

**Matthias** -: Okay. And I will just mark it as waiting for author.

**Anthony**-: Amazing. Excellent. So is everybody happy to move on to CIP 45?

**Matthias** -: Yes. Yes. Now just make sure we keep this CIP 30 update for last check, maybe next meeting. And if no activity has happened, then we'll just I think close it.

**Anthony**-:Okay. Excellent. I'll do so. Great. Thank you, Matthias.

#### PR229
[PR229 CIP-0045? | Decentralization: Using Pledge as a Bidding Param](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/229)

**Matthias** -:So CIP 45. Yeah. So I had a quick look at this one this morning and also at the forums messages. So this is yet another CIP to address incentives, rewards, and things that are in that realm, specifically focused on the pledge, Stake Pool pledge that one. So it sounded a lot similar to a CIP that was discussed in the past, which was the dynamic saturation based on pledge. So the idea of CIP 45 is to make the pledge for pools also dynamic in a way, and depends on the actual number of ADA being stable, the circulating supply, and that way make sure that both the pledge and the saturation levels kind of reflects the actual state of the network. So I haven't been through all the equations just yet, only been through the comments on the forum.

**Matthias** -: So yeah, I think it's a good one to put under review as well. And I would be interested to see a discussion comparing that with CIP 37, and how they do defers on that. I'm pretty sure both authors know or that the two proposals exist, if they don't and it's a good thing we put them together maybe for a chat as well.

**Anthony**-:Okay, excellent.So... Apologies. So from my perspective, this is something that's going to be placed under review.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I've been also quite late to address that one in a way, because I see it's been published on the 1st of March, so it's been sitting there for quite a bit, might be a bit of effort to resurrect the conversation, but I would definitely yes, love to spend some more time to go through this one point by point, maybe have a kind of comparisons of that with CIP 37. I'm not sure if you had time to go through it, Sebastien, if you have any remarks as well on this one.

**Sebastien** -: No, I don't actually. And do you know why this one was missed for so long? Did we talk about this? And then there was a reason why we lost over it.

**Matthias** -: And I think it just got lost in translation, slipped through the cracks. So I don't know. That's the kind of CIP we also wants to get IOG attentions about, and we know it's been a difficult task. We could probably also pass it through Reza at the CF, who is also now getting to more and more into looking into these things, just at least to get some research feedback on this. And I will also ping Kevin Hammond about that, who is now our point of contact with IOG and our best chance to get something through IOG research.

**Matthias** -: I'm not sure if Michael also, who is here today, you have seen that there is some overlap with CIP 50, as far as I can tell. Both could be complimentary solutions. Not sure if you have seen, or if you had time to also read through that?

**Michael**-: I need to refresh myself on it, but I did. I might have even cited it in my references of CIP 50.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So nothing really substantial, but you are aware that this exists as well. Well, at least now you are.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So yes, let me try to ping also people on that.

**Matthias** -: So the next call would be on the 16th of August, right?

**Anthony**-: Yes.

**Matthias** -: Yes.

**Anthony**-: That's correct.

**Matthias** -: So I'm just commenting that we'll like to do a more of an in-depth review for the next biweekly call, August 16. That it'll be good to have a comparison with CIP 37.

**Matthias** -: Can I ping the right people or what? Yes.

**Matthias** -: Okay.

**Anthony**-: Okay. Fantastic.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So that's it for this one. Let's have it for review next week.

**Anthony**-: Okay.

### Last Check
N/A

### Review 

#### PR242
[PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**Matthias** -: Sorry. In two weeks, in the next call and maybe let's start with CIP 50 now, since we have Michael and Christophe with us. So I did put a small update from what I got from the Discord chat, or there was few thread discussions, but from what I could get is there was this idea that if we end up doing a model or actual simulations of that particular model, it would be nice to use some kind of either genetic algorithms or neural network to try to model a bit more complex behaviors of the different actors, all players, in that sense in the whole simulation. There was also in the meantime, a response shared by IOG research and was specifically Aggelos and Christina, with some well comments on CIP 7 and CIP 50 in particular. I think there are some comments on these two. And I think Michael, you suggested to maybe do a point by point kind of response to address various claims that have been made and try to point to either the inconsistency or disagreement in particular with the interpretation of the CIP 50 proposal.

**Michael**-: Next action item, maybe to open source what they actually have.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. So we could perhaps ask for maybe not a deadline, but at least an estimate or something along those lines. When could we expect to have this particular simulation engine, because yes, that response is mentioning a new simulation engine that they have been using to compare these solutions to the existing protocol, which is planned to be made public, but still hasn't so far. So it would be good to get some... How would you say? Some view on that, just to know when we could expect this to be available to play also. So that's a good point.

**Michael**-: Clear that their new simulation engine is deviating from the original RSS publication paper simulation engine. The figures of merit have changed. Some of the methodologies have changed. They're updating and they're learning from CIP 50, which is good.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So some positive notes still.

**Michael**-: Yeah. On CIP 50, we are formulating a section on a recommended ranking equation. Marcel has shared what Eternl uses, we've considered a couple of others and it's not a binding part of the specification, but rather an advisory recommended section, but we figure it's important to include. Also in development is potentially another three equations that could be tried as part of the equation competition, so to say, with variable leverage. And so instead of a fixed constant leverage to have egalitarian and bias forms of the equation that have a reducing leverage as increasing as pledge increases, we're still considering adding those as well.

**Michael**-: So the more pledge you have, the less it gets you in terms of total stake size that could help address the idea of pool moguls or a pool emperor emerging. But one won't know that until simulation is actually being applied. And then of course, there's vigorous discussion on many aspects of CIP 50 in the discussion channel. And we're updating all of the figures and charts to reflect a reality that after the saturation point, there is not truly a diminishing return because individuals can split pools and continue the returns.

**Matthias** -: Okay, which actually would affect a bit some of the strategy. I think this was something that was a bit mentioned before, that with the CIP 50, there is an actual optimal point of pledge beyond which you want to actually split your pool to maximize your returns.

**Michael**-: Well, there would be a limit. So the design would be to be the "optimal" is as much as you have up to the limit and then as much further pledge as you want to contribute to make your pool more relatively attractive and lower leverage, that would be the concept.

**Matthias** -: Okay. And so that limit would be below the saturation limit and like now, right?

**Michael**-: Yes. It would always be a fraction of the saturation limit proportional to the leverage limit, but the scheme doesn't limit from putting more pledge than what would be required to maintain a saturated pool and the factor there isn't technical, but mainly social around pool ranking and perception of pool leverage in a ranking equation or an ecosystem of competing pools.

**Matthias** -: Okay. I'm just thinking about something, which is just a wild idea to maybe test social behavior as well. But we could imagine having a ranking formula that is based on CIP 50, and see if you can get some buy-in from existing Wallets, for instance, to display that ranking and the potential rewards for different pools as if CIP 50 was implemented sort of to start getting an idea of what it would mean for that CIP. You can showcase this one under CIP 50, would be expected to have this ranking and earn this particular amount of reward. Maybe that would make things a bit more concrete for people also.

**Michael**-: Yep. That's part of what's in development under a sub topical thread of the CIP 50 PR discussion here on this Discord. There's been a couple of screenshot images shown of almost exactly that, but as I mentioned, I think we're still under development with those ideas and not ready for inclusion yet.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Okay. Good. Good. I somehow missed that from the discussions.

**Michael**-: Yeah. The sub threads auto archive after 24 hours. So you might have to scroll back and find it from the main PR discussion topic.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Yeah. I think I see it now, these pool ranking work sub threads on... Yeah. There are 30 different messages in there which I missed. Okay. Then I will try to go through that. Also bring that back to the GitHub issues just for the sake of sharing. Okay.

**Matthias** -: Anything more on CIP 50 from your side?

**Michael**-: Apart from updating all of the charts, I also have a thought that I haven't implemented yet that I should include charts, not relative to the delegator yield, but relative to the pool owner operator yield. And so that would be an additional few charts that would show their return on invested capital that I think is Prometheus pool correlate has done a great criticism and job showing that those charts and those relationships are important relative to the owner. And I agreed that those charts could be included, but haven't yet. And so I think that could be wise to do.

**Matthias** -: Thank you.

**Michael**-: Because the Cardono as a whole, isn't just optimizing the reward equation for what the delegators earn, it's also trying to ensure that the relationships for yield or the operators are also aligned with what we want decentralization to be.

**Matthias** -: Well, I think that was actually the primary goal of the RSS paper originally, not to maximize rewards for people, but actually to incentivize to reach that `k` parameter - the optimal number of stake pool. The reward is just the incentives or the means by which we reach that equilibrium point. But I think the end goal has always been reaching that equilibrium point.

**Michael**-: True. That gets into a very deep philosophical discussion of whether you can use central economic planning to bias the network to a goal target number, a goal target rate, a goal target yield, a goal target count. Obviously the original IOG perspective is that they can, and the K parameter can do that. And so that bias and central planning number works, but the equilibrium point has now become about 10 times less than intended.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. That's the thing.

**Michael**-: Yeah. So then it gets to the philosophy of for the values of Cardano, do we want to have a centrally planned system or do we want the system to become the best version of itself, find its own equilibrium without bias?

**Matthias** -: No. I mean, it's always been an interesting discussion to see that. You want decentralization, but not too much, because there is this `k` that dictates you how much decentralization we tolerate for the system, which I think is also to correlate to the actual networking side of things, because the system that is too decentralized might also have a problem propagating blocks and getting the job done. So I think that's why there is an actual optimal `k`, kind of that is currently being fixed by one party, which also happened to be the party developing the networking stack because it's all a proof of stake system in the end. The network working is way more complicated than it could be compared to a proof of work system.

**Matthias** -: Because there are tons of assumptions that you cannot make and you have those actual hard limits on the block propagation; I mean, how much of the networks needs to reach consensus within a certain time window, which means that in practice, you can't probably reach a point where you have 10K different block producing nodes. I mean, I'm just shooting numbers here. Don't quote me on that. But there is definitely an optimal number from an engineering perspective. And then there is an optimal number from a social perspective also, and we kind of have to find the right balance between the two.

**Michael**-: Yeah. We're hoping that... I'm personally hoping that with some of the peer to peer technologies, the number of network supported relays under the block propagation threshold is increased by hopefully an order of magnitude, maybe two, such that the network capabilities are much more than what the equation is set up to do. That's my hope. I think we're starting to see some evidence that that might be maturing and growing as more peer to peer nodes are adopted on the network. But I agree that could be a problem if you don't have peer to peer. If you do have peer to peer, the ceiling might go up by an order magnitude. And then I think if we unlock the centralization, then what we might have to do is make sure that any network consensus and block propagation stays half an order of magnitude to an order of magnitude, more capable ahead of where the actual community is decentralized to.

**Michael**-: And one of my buddies, Rob, he recently got into this space, he's... There are global consensus mechanisms that scale, even another couple of order of magnitudes beyond which could be considered on an engineering side. Much more complicated, but they're used for things like synchronizing the video of a super bowl or world cup across thousands of data centers globally for a live broadcast, for example. So they exist, other people who are using these technologies on the internet to do global scale consensus, but we might not need to adopt them to enhance a fledgling peer to peer yet.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. And I mean, I guess there's also questions of how many of those scheme are also Byzantine resistant and fault tolerant because that's kind of the point here. We don't just want a consensus, a distributed consensus algorithm, we want one that can resist attacks of various kinds, but that's both an engineering problem and a political problem at the same time. So I mean, I think there are explanations as for why there is a `k`-parameter today. So sort of my point, would that be needed once we have peer to peer enabled? Maybe not. That's kind of the hope. And as you say, let the system auto-balance itself and find its equilibrium regarding decentralization and what's the right amount of decentralization?

**Michael**-: To become the best version of itself.

**Matthias** -: Yes. Let's maybe quote that under the CIP title.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So let's keep the discussions going also and have CIP 50 back for review next week. We haven't got any updates from IOG, think they have been busy with Vasil with some of the recent problem and bugs found. So I haven't heard of Kevin on that. I think Christophe mentioned that he... I mean Kevin said something recently online on the 360 or something like that, but it was nothing really substantial, just that they were looking at it. They were aware that it existed, wanted to well provide also feedback. We'll still a bit waiting on that sentence. So let's see next meeting.

**Anthony**-: Amazing. Great.

#### PR296
[PR296 CIP-0062? | Governance API for dApp Connectors (dApps<->Wallet Web-bridge](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/296)

**Matthias** -: CIP 62 is next in line, right?

**Anthony**-: That's correct.

**Matthias** -: I've been trying to click on the link for 15 seconds and I just realized it was a stream. One can't click on a video, obviously. Anyway, governance API for DApp, which was proposed by Bruno Martins, who is now the tech lead regarding Wallets at IOG if I recall correctly. And this is a proposal to extend CIP 30 with capabilities that would make that voting process a bit more streamlined. Sorry, I did a first run of review on that one this morning and mainly suggested to simplify a bit some of the methods in particular to make things a bit more orthogonal, meaning not to have the API provide five different ways of doing the same things or in that case two different ways.

**Matthias** -: And I'm also asking for a rationale section mainly because, we need a rationale section for any CIPs in general, and because that gives the bases for discussions and that explains, at a later time, why the decisions were made, the context within which they were made. And for that one in particular, because there are a few suggested API or endpoints, you could say, or interfaces, that can be done currently through existing libraries and I don't see why adding them to the bridge, the wallet interface so to speak, makes sense. Or at least there is no justification for it. I can get that it's maybe a bit more simple and that removes some of the burden from the apps implementing that, but those apps are mainly Wallets anyway. So that was a bit some form of the gap in the justification here that I'm liking. I don't know, Sebastien, if you had a look at that yet.

**Sebastien** -: No, unfortunately I was hoping to look into it today, but as you may have heard, there's other stuff that came up. There's still some discussion going on internally related to the CIP, so stuff may still change, but definitely it's good to over it. I agree that it's probably over complicated the way it's testified now and I'll try and find some time to give my thoughts on this.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Because my main understanding on this, or I mean, experience that's... I mean the catalyst voting in general, it's always been done by wallet implementors themselves; [Inaudible] So I don't quite see the need for an external API for that to let any DApp do the registration themselves.

**Sebastien** -: Oh, so the reason for this is because they want to have this de-rep system. So basically anybody can propose themselves to be a representative for catalyst voters and you can delegate your aid out to this representative. Similar to stake pools, there needs to be some sort of stake pool viewer just like there needs to be some sort of de-rep reviewer. So there'll be websites that are made for this. And then some of these dealers may have their own website with a click here to delegate me on all those kind of interface. So the motivation for this is almost only the direct feature.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So, then I don't get the API cause a lot of the API are-

**Sebastien** -: Yeah.

**Matthias** -: It's leveraging key derivation path, which suggests that the key belongs to the Wallet and not to some delegated-

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. I think this is a mistake. It should be like other standards where you start with zero and then if zero is huge to get one and the Wallet handles this, I think. Having the debt analysis is going to be a huge disaster.

**Matthias** -: So okay. Definitely a need for some of the motivation and rational. So I've already flagged that on the PR waiting for some comments now on this. Yeah. So I guess we can just leave it there for now. If we have any of update from the author before the next meeting, we can discuss that again in the next meeting otherwise, I just wait.

#### PR299
[PR299 CIP-0068? | Datum Metadata Standard](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/299)

**Matthias** -: To do. Next one on the agenda, CIP 68. Datum metadata standard, which comes as a replacement or an iteration on the existing metadata standards. But this one aims to be a bit general, although the specification is also focused on NFTs at this stage because that's the main use case driving that proposal.

**Matthias** -: The main spirit as for... I think the main rationale as for why put a metadata in the datum instead of in the transaction is because you cannot access metadata of the transaction as part of your Plutus script, which is a little odd. And it truly sounds like at a political issue, at least the transaction metadata and the datums have become kind of redundant with one another. So having access to the metadata inside the script allows for some extra validations to be done in particular when moving NFTs around.

**Matthias** -: Without access to that, your scripts are basically blind to what happened, which makes it very hard to just update metadata, for instance, if that's ever needed. So I think that's the core motivations behind that CIP. Beyond that the structure is kind of similar to what was already proposed for the NFT standards, except that it's fully accessible from the script's context and something that is meant to be provided as datums, so Plutus built-in data, and possibly interpreted as JSON once again. And well, that's about what I have for now on that. There have been a lot of discussions on it. I admittedly, didn't go through all the comments yet. Sebastien, I see you've been a bit more active than me on this one. So maybe you have some inputs as well.

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. So for this CIP, as you mentioned, is kind of a solid, better version of 25. The problem of 25, of courses is that I have to rely on this initial mint transaction and there is no guarantees that this is the actual mint. This one is slightly better, but still has the same issue, which is that now it's including stuff as part of the asset name. And now you have no way to know if the asset name is really by design or if this was a smart contract where users got to pick the asset name, this is a bit rarer of a situation. So it's slightly better. I still think it's slightly problematic. Personally, I prefer the option that [inaudible 00:44:11] maker came up with. So if there's another CIP that's the DID standard for Cardano and inside, they did standard. They did something very similar to this metadata standard, except they added another layer of indirection to avoid having to have the asset name stuffing, which I think is probably the better approach, but all things considered, I don't think there's anything wrong with CIPP the way it stands now. Obviously there's some issues with it as I mentioned, but if people use it, understanding of these issues, then I don't see anything wrong with it in particular.

**Matthias** -: Okay. We haven't really looked at CIP 66. So this DID standard proposed by the team, which might be good then to bring on the table, at least in the next meeting or next to the new metadata discussion, especially if they have some conflicting opinions on these.

**Sebastien** -: Yeah, I think there were three PRs with conflicting implementations of this many data standard. So there's the metadata standard for us as the end maker one. Then there's a third one that also had something similar. I don't remember.

**Matthias** -: Well, there was on chain metadata proposed by this web team a while back, but I think this one got...

**Sebastien** -: Cardano Smart NFTs.

**Matthias** -: Oh no, that was yet another one, the smart NFTs. The smart NFT were about embedding actual codes on the blockchains that makes those NFT... I mean, that's an API for those NFTs to be embedded.
Speaker 4:
Right. And they want the way to upgrade these...

**Matthias** -: Yeah. To make them programmable and interactive in a way. But there is some overlap maybe less than with CIP 66. Okay. So that would be important to mention and to see if we can get maybe both offers to discuss where there is no problem in having two different proposals. That's always a pain down the line. So platform that need to implement both of them as that both gets really adopted. So we might as well want to have only one. So I'll mention that on the request.

**Matthias** -: Let's put the link.

**Matthias** -: So I will suggest you have maybe a discussion with the two authors as part of the next CIP biweekly, if they can both make it, that would be great. Just to compare trade off and see if there is perhaps one that should prevail over the other.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. And well, that's kind of it from my end. So I guess we can finish things up now.

**Anthony**-: Excellent. Thanks. Thanks Matthias. That's great.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, I'm just finishing up a comment on CIP 68. I can do a small summary of the session after that. No problem. Just trying to get the handle for the author.

### Discussions
N/A

### Issues
N/A

### Close 

**Matthias** -: Okay. So back to the meeting and the agenda. So we've been through, well CIP 27 of the status of the exchange with move it to active.

**Matthias** -: Then CIP 30, there was the discussion of adding a Wallet experimental API version to it, which happened while back has been idle since. There was a suggestion from Sebastien a while back also to use the Wallet name, to address what that particular suggestion was about. So waiting for the author and we'll close it in the next biweekly if there is no update on that one.

**Matthias** -: CIP 45, which is another proposal that tries to address the pledge/incentives issues on Cardano. We somehow completely missed that one in the past because it's been there since the 1st of March. So we're trying to get back to the author now and see if we can spark back the discussions on this. We reflect this to you as well, to see if we can get that into their feedback pipeline.

**Matthias** -: We'll discuss also updates on CIP 50, mainly related to the recent blog posts that were shared by IOG and the research team. A few action items on that being, make a response to those blog posts and as well, update some of the graphs to take a slightly different perspective. Then what we currently have. And there was also these discussions of maybe trying to make some of the data available to wallets or applications, which also happened on this call as well. We discussed briefly CIP 62, which is an extension of CIP 30 to add methods regarding the catalyst voting registration. It wasn't clear as for why one would want that as part of the CIP 30, that connector. And so if like that, asking for a rationale or some justifications from the original author.

**Matthias** -: And finally CIP 68 regarding the datum metadata standard, which comes as a replacement of CIP 25, there seems to be some overlap with CIP 66. They have both different, slightly different trade offs. So we are suggesting to have a discussion between the authors of the two CIPs and so have that your discussion next week. And that's about it.

**Anthony**-: Excellent. Thank you, Matthias.

**Matthias** -: Yeah so-

**Anthony**-: Anybody else on the call, is there anything that you'd like to discuss or add on or can we complete like that?

**Matthias** -: I think we're good. So thanks everyone for joining and Michael for speaking and updating us also on the CIP 15 and see you in two weeks.

**Anthony**-: Great. Thank you everybody. Bye.


---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
