**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [April 12 2022 Transcript](#april-12-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [PR216 - CIP-40? | Collateral output](#pr216)    
    + [PR163 - CIP-37? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge](#pr163)
    + [PR137 - CIP-0038? | On-Chain Token Metadata Standard](#pr137)    
    + [PR151 - CIP30: Events API](#pr151)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [PR218 - CIP-42? | New plutus builtin: serialiseBuiltinData](#pr218)        
  * [Review](#review)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](#pr242)
    + [PR224 - Add Proof of Existence record label to registry.json](#pr224)
    + [PR241 - CIP-0989? | ISPO KYC_CDD](#pr241)
    + [PR188 - CIP-36? | Update CIP-15 to support multi-delegation](#pr188)

  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 12/04/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly), [recorded](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/cip-editors-meeting-43) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.  


## April 12 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, ~Duncan Coutts~, Sebastien Guillemot, Frederic Johnson, Robert Phair. 
**Guests**: Michael, Giacomo

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Hello, everyone. Welcome to the CIP editors meeting number 43. My name is Maria Angels Jover, and I work as a project manager at the Cardano Foundation. And I am here to facilitate this meeting for you. At the top left, here you see... I am not sharing my screen. Sorry. Right now, you should be able to see my screen. At the top here, on this I letter, you can click and you can check the agenda. Then you have the chat box where you can leave any questions that you have. Also at the bottom, you have this bottom Ask a Question, you can use this because it's easier for us to answer from here and not from the chat. And well, it's my pleasure today to introduce you to all our editors today, which are Matthias Benkort, Frederick Johnson, and Robert Phair. First of all, I would like to check with you editors, is there anything that you want to review that is not in the agenda? Hey, Sebastian is here. Hi, Sebastian. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. And you have Sebastian Guillemot as an editor too.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Well, there has been a recent pull request on CIP, but I sure CIP 50, that will be maybe nice to get a nice one, especially because it's similar to a previous CIP we've had, and maybe also overlapping with CIP number 37. I haven't looked in details into it because it's quite wide CIP, and we won't do the review today likely, but at least get a first acknowledgement, first dive into it, and see what would be needed then, maybe, to move it forward. I've already forwarded that CIP, by the way, to the core team internally for people to have a look. Yeah, we can expect some activity and comments in the upcoming future. And maybe I'll have [crosstalk].

**M. Àngels Jover**-: What PR is it Matthias?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Sorry. It's PR 242.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay. I'm just going to share it with you.

**Robert Phair**-: : Okay. And there was also one issue that I think should be discussed, some of the CIP PRs are being discussed. Said it's about one of the first CIPs that came along as an issue 232. That is right now being hashed out, the discussion is being hashed out in that issue, but it might be good to track that the same way we're tracking some of the PRs, because there's been a lot of discussion about whether one of the original CIPs should be modified or a new CIP should be created. It would be good to observe that for a little bit.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, yeah. Good point. Issue number 242, right, on CIP number two, the coin selection.

**Robert Phair**-: : Yeah.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  This one, yeah. This one has got a bit of a [inaudible].

**Matthias Benkort**-:  (Silence).

### Triage 

#### PR216
 [PR216 - Collateral output](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/216)


**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay. Shall we start with the collateral outputs?

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Yes. This one was agreed last week to merge it, but I have added it to triage as I haven't seen it merged yet.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. Right, right, right. I wanted to go through it, which I actually did yesterday. Yeah, you just need a number. That's why we haven't still merged it. But it's tentatively CIP 40, so it's just a matter now of moving the file to the right folder, putting CIP 40 as a number, and getting it merged, indeed. That we discussed, but we also haven't proved it explicitly. Yeah, I will approve and reduce conditions of those terms. I'm not sure, Robert, if you had time to go or to look at this one, but the status quo of what we discussed last week was that this has been made and written in combination with the ledger team, and it's actually already being adopted in the ledger as an implementation and should be part of the Vasil Hard Fork coming in June, so it's a bit fast tracked in that sense.

**Robert Phair**-: : Yeah. That's all I got from it is that it seems to be in progress anyway, and I certainly don't have any disagreement with it, the way it's being treated.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, it was more like an ad-hoc conversation that got documented as a CIP, but by the time the CIP arrived, the decision had already been made with the ledger team about the direction to take. It's more an informational CIP in that sense.

**Robert Phair**-: : It's fait accompli, yeah.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  And therefore, we could also maybe address the status already, because at least as proposed. Yeah, can you confirm we expect this to be included in the Vasil Hard Fork? I would say we could merge it as proposed and move it to active as soon as it's observable after the Hard Fork. Let's document that under pull request review change status to propose.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay, sorry. That's commented directly on the ticket.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Here, we have the update. Perfect. We are missing one approval right here, right now, to merge it.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, but we don't want to merge it also right away, as I said. We still need a few bullet points to be tackled, so either Sebastian can do it or any of the editor can tackle that later on. We should be able to push on the branch, at least.


#### PR163
 [PR163 - CIP-37? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/163)

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay. I just added a few things to the agenda that were... This one, for example, 163 was on hold, and you comment that Matthias said was sitting with the engineering team. I was wondering if you had any update on this.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. Unfortunately, no. This one is a bit the same as the curve pledge benefits CIP seven, or another CIP, which I don't remember the... Yeah, 24th non-centralized ranking which are affecting the protocol and the rewards mechanism of the protocol or the way pools get rewards and get organized. And therefore, this is affecting the game theory behind the scene, and that's CIPs for which we wanted to have inputs from the researchers. From what I got so far is that the research team has no bandwidth to provide an actual detailed answer, but that they are not quite in favor of these new CIPs because they put some... Well, they reduced the Nakamoto coefficient or they put some security issues, but they have been quite vague so far on the reasons and the rationales behind, so I'm really trying to get a formal answer or some more detailed answer on those matters. But yeah, so no substantial updates from my side, unfortunately.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Perfect. What I will do is to leave it on hold and maybe we can just talk in a month or a month and a half. Maybe I can ask you offline if you have any update.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Well, if I have any anyway, I will put them on the PR and comments on the respective CIPs. I'm really checking every week on those ones, mainly because if they are unsuitable because of some reasons, I would just like to put those CIPs and mark them as obsolete or rejected and be able to move on with that.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay, okay.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay, so Kevin is saying the research team has a blog in progress about pledge, so that might be resolved soon. And that's also why I wanted to look at the the potential CIP 50 that has been published recently because it comes along with, actually, a lot of data, graphs, and argumentation in favor of the CIP, which then makes it for a good style of discussion, or actually, that definitely shows that there has been research done also on that particular topic, and maybe makes it easier for the research team to assess whether or not the work is legit, or what I mean is it doesn't put security issues within the whole project.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, Michael is here, I see. Yeah, well, near the end lately, after we've done the current agenda, we'll touch a bit about CIP 50, so that's good. Thank you, Michael, for joining. Yeah, beside that, I think we reviewed the CIP 37 already in the past. It looks sensible from a technical perspective as it is. The question is, does it play actually well with the game theory or not, and will it have the outcome that is explaining in the motivation. That's more a question for the game theories behind, so it's a bit hard to tell. Maybe there will be also something to do with testnets on those two slants. Many of those changes rely on the game theory, and the game theory is theory also, a lot. It doesn't necessarily play like that on the whole scenario, so I'm wondering maybe if we could also just pin up testnets to try out those features sometimes and see how it goes, how people organize, even though testnet is also not mainnet. You've got free money, so you don't behave the same way you would behave on the actual minutes. I don't know, sorry. Just a parentheses.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay. Do you want to move forward to the next one?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yes, unless someone has something to discuss on that one.

#### PR137
 [PR137 - CIP-0038? | On-Chain Token Metadata Standard](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/137)

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay. I brought to the agenda also PR 137 because we were waiting for the author, and this was one that I have on hold too, but I see that has been commented seven hours ago, so that's good.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, there has been some activities, but not from the author, unfortunately. Maybe we can ping, actually, Matt, the author, directly to see. People are arguing on the formats, and mainly, so they want to have something more compatible with the NFT standard that exists, but as we've outlined already in the past, the current NFT standard has several flaws that we want to fix. If going for new standards, we shouldn't repeat the same mistakes as before, which is exactly what the last comment answers or explains. As for this proposal itself, it still has the issues we've exposed a while ago, which is that you cannot really use the minting transaction of tokens to attach metadata to them, and therefore... Well, that's still an unsolved problem, and that's why we were waiting for the author to react on that. Maybe they have been discontinuing the whole proposal, so it would be good to clarify that with them.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: I can ping again, request him to comment on February 28th, maybe. Well, I will just do it again and ping him again.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  We're already pinging, or-

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I will do so.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay. I will just reach out to him on Discord maybe, that would be more efficient. Oh, not sure if he's monitoring the report or not.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: It's Savasky, right?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, who is actually Matt, the CTO of SundaySwap

**M. Àngels Jover**-: I'll do it later. 

#### PR151
 [PR151 - CIP30: Events API](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/151)

**M. Àngels Jover**-: We have 151 events API. I brought this to the agenda because it was an old one.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  The Event API. Didn't we merge that one already, or was it still in flux?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  (Silence).

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Matthias? I don't know if you are talking. Oh, he disconnected. Hi, Matthias.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Hey, sorry.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: You disconnected, right?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. I clicked the link.

**Robert Phair**-: : Thank God. I saw the drop there too, yeah.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Took me out. Am I back?

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Yes, you are.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay. Yeah, so this one has got no activity since February 4th, so we're basically waiting on the author on that. This was part of the original CIP 30, and it was moved out of the CIP when we merged the CIP 30 as a draft, because it was quite a side concern, and we thought it would be better to bring it as an update or an external CIP completely. It was more like a grooming around what could an event API look like for the CIP 30. I'm not sure if the effort is being discontinued or not, but yeah, I guess this one still needs more discussions from within the community before we actually can do anything as editors.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: We just leave it on hold, right?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. It's still a draft, and it's very under discussion, so I think you just open a PR to have the discussion live, happening on GitHub, but there is no particular need or urgency to get anything done at the moment with that CIP.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay. I'll take notes.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: (Silence).

### Last Check  

#### PR218
 [PR218 - CIP-42? | New plutus builtin: serialiseBuiltinData](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/218)

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Next step I added to, this is the same one, here at 163. We can go directly to last check with the 218, new CIP-42? New plutus builtin: serialiseBuiltinData within this one. I think it was supposed to be merged.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, provided that we did the necessary updates on this one, and I'm guilty as one of the co-authors. I was just busy with other stuff and didn't do the time to do anything with that one. But yeah, so it's another implementation on the Plutus site, or actually it's even been implemented already, but only available on the latest master branch, so not yet in the nodes. But yeah, we wanted to clarify the cost model and what the cost model looked like with this proposal, that was one of the open points we left when we made the proposal, and it's been clarified since then. Before merging, we should just report in the proposal what it is. Just waiting for the author on that one.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay. I'm going to label it.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Maybe I will just comment on it so that it's also clear.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay. That was what I added to the agenda because we were moving forward little from our last meeting. Do you want to do a review on other PRs, because maybe you know better what it's worth?

### Review 

### Discussions

#### PR242
 [PR242 - CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Well, since we have Michael here, we can definitely look at potential CIP 50, at least to get a round of introduction and a high level overview of it before we actually dive into redoing it in the next sessions, or more in between sessions.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: We are in 242?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  That was 242, right?

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Okay, so I will bring Michael on stage. And Robert, I am going to need to change you for Michael.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, or I can drop as well. Oh, okay. That already dropped.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Michael Liesenfelt, right?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Connecting. Hello, Michael.

**Michael**-:  [crosstalk] your audio?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  We hear you. A bit low, but we hear you.

**Michael**-:  Excellent.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay.

**Michael**-:  Right, should I launch into a brief introduction?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, more like describing what's the intent behind, and maybe if hardly also aware of the other CIP that exists, and let's also try to address similar issues, so maybe the key inferences with that.

**Michael**-:  Sure. There are many prior CIPs, I've referenced them much later in the document, but this grew from looking at the Cardano Network as a whole and realizing that there was a disconnect between the game theory and the game reality. And then upon a paper review, I realized that the RSS paper considered multi-pooling as a Sybil behavior, and we just won't simulate our players in the models with the capability of spooling up more than one pool per player, which, if I was the reviewer of the paper at the time, I would've kicked it back and said, "Each player can delegate to somebody else, make one pool, or make more than one pools." That oversight in the game theory has led to the proliferation of multi-pools in defiance of any hope of changing the K parameter.

**Michael**-:  Instead of complaining about it, I decided to start investigating and looking at the historical background of who's had thoughts on this issue, what could be a potential solution forward, and there were plenty of forum posts, other CIPs, that have each taken a little bit different edge. I'm not the first to mention pledge leverage. There are concepts of crafting a leverage parameter. Many of the prior equations included higher order relationships, included higher order curves, included due factors, included greater complexity. And I decided I was going to be a little crazy and instead, simplify it so there was nothing to hide anywhere in the equation, anywhere in the field of outcomes. The relevant document's probably the readme.md, and that contains the long narrative.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay. Thank you.

**Michael**-:  And it may be good to view it. Yeah, there we go. From a prior CIP editors meeting here, I learned that with certain technically deep topics, we'll need to come up with and propose external reviewers. That's probably one of the first steps is find out a great list of peer reviewers that are relevant and engaged and have done prior work that could add value to a review. I've started that list. I would definitely love any additional names to go on that list. That's probably one of the first starting points.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, indeed. I've already forwarded your documents, by the way, to all the engineering crew at IOG, I at least the ledger one, or exactly, people work on the ledger and [inaudible] words. Also brought that to the attention of the research team. We are expecting some feedback on that and the discussion to start. I think we can remove Tim from the list, too, although he would love that. I'm not sure Tim would be the best person to review any of the technical stuff we have.

**Michael**-:  All right. I purposely didn't put you on the list either because I considered you as an editor and maybe not as a reviewer.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. We're going to review from a editor perspective, the whole proposal. It makes sense whether it respects or not the holes and whatnot. And I can definitely review it with my engineer hat, but I'm definitely not the best person to review that. Kevin say, "Yeah, the ledger team is interested in this indeed." We've got pretty good feedback so far, so I will chase a bit people to see if we can get at least one person to get the conversation started from the IOG engineering, maybe also one person from the research side. I think we have Sean here as well, who maybe has also an interest in participating in a conversation. Tobias also, I recall he made an extended post on the Cardano forum on this topic. I think he even made a CIP or not yet submitted, but he had the plan to, at least. Yeah, definitely also good. I'm not sure if Colin has seen the proposal, but we can also ping him.

**Michael**-:  His initial Cardano forum thread is what spurred me to decide to write the CIP, especially when he said, "We at IOG here, we could be more aggressive with how we game rewards and financing from our current stake." And I'm like, it's exactly what we need to prevent one actor deciding that they need to be able to take a more aggressive stance against the rest of the community.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, yeah. That's one, it's definitely something we want to discuss, but I'm not sure we will just discuss it on the next weekly meeting just because the discussion on this one will take likely a bit of time. This is one of the CIPs that might stay open for a bit. It would be good maybe to really see if we can have a more structured way of reviewing this one, because it's quite deep in the game theory. And in the protocol changes, we might want to have review sessions with a bunch of people that are listed in that CIP.

**Michael**-:  At a high level, I've crafted the name specifically, I started out realizing that decentralization is a Shelly-era concept, but I am not expecting this to be done immediately or soon or fast. And that's why Voltaire is in the name because this may actually take more community review and community governance, and might get implemented next era rather than now. That's why it's actually named the way it is.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, definitely. And right now, I'm just thinking about first having good conversation on whether or not it makes sense and whether or not it is sound. And then there will be a second round of discussion on when does this get implemented and how, or by whom. Here's that thread on... Yeah, maybe we can put those threads on the CIP itself, comment it on the pull request to keep track record of those other discussions.

**Michael**-:  There's a conversation already starting that is getting robust.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Good, good. Yeah, the one on the-

**Michael**-:  Also, question, as we move to Voltaire and pull in more community support and more community input, where should the official place for community support and non-technical support or oppose come in? I started collecting them on the Wiki page of my submission, but is that the right place? Is that the best place? Obviously, the Wiki is disabled for the main repository. Or a better place.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. That's a good question, and unfortunately, not something I can answer. That's something we keep on repeating on the CIP meetings, but the CIPs are often interpreted as a governance mechanism, but the CIP have no governance absolutely on the protocol. They are about collecting solutions to problems and agreeing on the technical soundness on solutions. The thing is, they are not authoritative of anything. They won't tell you that these things will happen or that this is the roadmap or anything. It's more like the collections of possible solutions. And if we even need to solve a particular problem, we can pick among that collection. And it's also a good way to collaborate on standards across different platforms and wallets. But then, gathering the community sentiment, more like the community votes on a particular decisions, that's something more for catalysts, really, and you could very much see that both works together.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  How have a first CIP that is technically reviewed, it's been peer reviewed, approved, and then move to the catalyst land, say, "Well, that proposal is about implementing CIP XXX," and there is where you can actually get community voting and chipping in on, yes or no, I want this, I think this is a good thing. And the nice way of going that way is that, from the community perspective and the non-technical people, they can trust in the CIP process to have done already the technical review and the technical soundness of something. If it's been approved, it's been reviewed by both editors and the community and experts, then you can say, "Okay, it's already a pretty strong catalyst proposal itself, and now it's about implementing it." Only thing we need to look at is whether or not the budget maybe makes sense and if the team that is proposing to implement it also sounds capable of doing it, basically. Yeah, I hope this is a good answer for you.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay, for this particular one, we'll just keep it in the loop for now. I really think it's one of those CIPs that should deserve proper review meetings with a bunch of parties. I will see if I can make that happen, or if not, I will try to find someone that can make that happen. I see the conversation anyways already going on the community forum. Now, it's more a matter of digesting also the conversations and bringing those updates to the CIPs. I'm not sure how available also you are to make those updates and work on it, but I guess that's something we can figure out along the way.

**Michael**-:  I have been making additions and revisions and changes, and will continue to do so. Maybe not every day, but maybe every few days.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, that's good. Yeah, if you can only work on that, for instance, once every two months, that will be a bit longer to iterate. "Talk to me, Matthias, if you need IOG involvement." Of course, Kevin, talking to you every day. Or not every day, okay. And yeah, we can definitely try to follow that up, Kevin. Thanks. What else do we have? I'm pretty sure we had also a similar proposal from Tobias, actually. I've seen it on the forum, but I'm not sure if you opened the pull request or not already.

**Michael**-:  Not yet. We've been in communication about it. There are some structural differences between our [inaudible] the R over one plus alpha term end, and define an extra perimeter L, whereas I decided to take out the one over one plus alpha term and recast alpha entirely.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay. We might actually end up with only one proposal maybe, or are you just still, do you know if he's still thinking of making a competing proposal and maybe [crosstalk]?

**Michael**-:  I'm not sure. I want to make he's got the opportunity to submit it and submit a pull request, if he wants to, and anybody else, and any other prior formula change, equation change, because in review, all of these different variations should be tested together as a pool with the same methodology, including the old equation at a couple of different parameters. And I included a section of my CIP on how we should change the paradigm of how we analyze these proposals going forth.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. Okay, okay.

**Michael**-:  It should be an inclusive process.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, definitely. But the challenge actually is really to, as you just said, to find maybe a common way of assessing them and judging them according to some common criteria as to then make a decision. Yeah, and maybe there is not one good answer. Maybe there are multiple ones. And then, at some point, there will be a choice to be made. And that's exactly why we have catalysts also, so the community can choose eventually.

**Michael**-:  I'm also fully aware that, as we analyze this and peer review this, there could be a hybridization of ideas that would occur, a cross-pollination between different CIPs, and the form of the reward equation could change to something new that hasn't even been considered yet. It's not impossible.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, yeah. And it's not impossible so that all those CIPs end up merging into one common proposal that has one common structure, which will be from the ultimate goal. And it will make the choice wager for the community as well, if you have only a choice to vote between one thing and one thing that's easier. But yeah, so we'll see. Okay. What else do we have on the table? Maybe tech, tech, tech. 

#### PR224
 [PR224 - Add Proof of Existence record label to registry.json](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/224)

**Matthias Benkort**-: I see there is a small pull request, 224, which is adding a new label to CIP 10. That's something Robert has already comment in them. Yeah, okay. That was good comment. Are you still there, Maria, by the way?

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Yes, I am here. Don't you see my screen?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Nope. We don't anymore. We see Michael.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Oh. I didn't realize. It's this one, right?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, so a small addition to the registry for which we typically ask for also a justification for that. It's a proof of existing claims.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  I'm not quite sure to understand the goal of it, but at the same time, it's no particular... It's just an addition to the registry which needs to be public and extended. Nothing against it, not sure what Robert and Sebastian thinks of it, if they have also got time to look into that, but it's small one enough.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Rob or Sebastian, any of you on to the common stage? Robert says, "I am okay endorsing it if it's a label people can understand and use or are already using." And Sebastian says there's nothing on his side.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. Okay, so it also boils down to a conversation we had in the past on CIP 10. Maybe having a slightly clearer process of what it means to add stuff to that CIP 10, or if there is new conditions to it, we typically just ask people to justify the hashing on behind their label and why it would be useful, but that's beyond that.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: You have approved it, right and it is going to be merged.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, this is really a minor update on that CIP 10, so no particular issue.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: You have both approvals, already.

#### PR241
 [PR241 - CIP-0989? | ISPO KYC_CDD](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/241)

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. We put the label, CIP 10, new entry. Okay. Then we have a CIP, so PR number 241, which is a CIP from John Woods, so IOG Director of Cardano Architecture, he's proposing new primitives or... This one is interesting because it seems to be about providing some form of identity authentication mechanism for tools, but I'm not sure if the motivation really came from SPO or not. Would be interesting maybe to bring it to the next SPO call that often happen on Discord and see when we have SPO commenting on that, since this is something directly affecting them or providing a benefit to them.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, I'm not sure if anyone knows, or maybe Kevin, you know, when is the next SPO call planned? Yeah, I mean he's Robert, that's why I'm wondering. And I think that will be a good first step before doing anything with that proposal first, show it to the SPO and see what people think of it and if they actually also see a use case or benefits in this approach. Yeah, okay. Thanks, Robert. That would be nice. Otherwise, we can probably share it with a bunch of SPOs already that we know and try to get some community sentiment. I will ask John, or we can ask John also to share it on the forum, or I think there is still some activity also there, and people are looking to the forum a bit more than the report, I think.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  (Silence).

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay, so I'm just telling John to maybe, so what you just said, commenting on the pull request to see if we can bring it to the next SPO call on Discord, and also share the link and the CIP on the Cardano forum to get some extra attention there. That would be interesting.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  No confirm date for the next meeting. We are on roughly four week cycle, that's okay. The last one was last week, so this one could take a bit of time before we revisit it. We can maybe put it on triage for review for, not the next be biweekly, but the one after that.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: In a month, right?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  In a month. Yeah, in a month from now, and have the conversation going with the SPOs in the meantime.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  (Silence).

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Would we have time to review anything else?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Maybe, but the question is more what is left to review from what we had. We could definitely... Oh, maybe not today, but start including also the issues in the reviews because as we said last time, there is not 15 issues that have been opened on the repository, and it's not really something we anticipated in the first place. We're mainly thinking about pull requests and how people would just submit CIPs as pull requests, but there are also discussions or side discussions happening in issues which are similar to what's the kind of conversation happening on the Cardano forum.

#### PR188
 [PR188 - CIP-36? | Update CIP-15 to support multi-delegation](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/188)

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Oh yeah, right. It took Giacomo suggesting to look at CIP 36, that we discussed last week. There was a bunch of updates to make to that one. It was the initial extension of the meta delegations that was then extracted as a separate CIP, but the author, Mark, got unavailable, so we brought it back to the original author. What we discussed last week was that we'll move it back, get a few updates to it which make the CDDL format forward compatible and have also the derivation path specified in the proposal. I did add the derivation path, and I think Giacomo, you've been working on the CDDL a bit. Yep, so then I think it's good to go.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Which PR is this one I don't know which on it is

**Matthias Benkort**-:  188. It's a pretty old one. It's been over multiple bumps, this one.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: This one right here, right?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  What is the new CDDL nowadays?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  (Silence).

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Maybe we can bring also Giacomo on the screen just to walk us through the updates.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Sure.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: (Silence).

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Inviting Giacomo.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: (Silence).

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Hey, Giacomo, you are on screen.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Can you hear me?

**Giacomo**-:     Yeah.

**Robert Phair**-: : Yes.

**Giacomo**-:     Yeah. I've looked at the consideration that were posted on the CIP at... I've select the amended, the wording, but CDDL is still the same as before, because I believe we can make that forward compatible by requiring all new credential to have a tag associated with them, but keep the stake key unpacked so that it's compatible with all CIP 15, that would allow us not to require everyone to register again, which is a concern on our side.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay, because at the moment, any registration maybe in the past is valid for any subsequent round.

**Giacomo**-:     Yep, exactly. It would be a bit expensive if we plan multiple voting rounds to have everyone to register for each one of them.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, and that would be more expensive. That would just be per UX, in a way. Okay, so that's a good point, but yeah, it's also possible to support both formats and have the backward compatibility while also making room for the next steps.

**Giacomo**-:     What would be the advantage?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Well, you just said avoid re-registering, right?

**Giacomo**-:     No, I mean in supporting both formats, what about we just say, there's this untagged version, there is just the default, and it's the-

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, exactly.

**Giacomo**-:     For about everything else, CIP 36 is already compatible with CIP 15, or there are defaults, sensible defaults, which makes it compatible.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, okay. I guess it would just be a question for another CIP or an update later on, on how do we introduce a broader variety of credentials without actually also breaking compatibility with existing registration? And we won't probably get away from still supporting the untagged version for forever, just for the sake of backward compatibility. Yes, I can. I think Sebastian also had a few comments on that last week, so I'm happy to prove it on my side. I'm not sure, since it was mostly also Sebastian's concerns, whether or not he is fine with the current proposal.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Maybe we can leave a last check for next week, next meeting?

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Oh, it was already last check for today, I think. We want to talk to Sebastian in June. Well, I will approve it on my end. We can see offline if also Sebastian is fine with it, and then merged it to move forward with it or not, depending on the outcome. Sebastian said, "Yeah, as long as made the forward compatible changes to the tech type, and good." Well, that's kind of the point of the discussion right now, that the forward compatible changes won't be made in that moment yet because they all also break compatibility or backward compatibility.

**Giacomo**-:     All new changes have attacked, then I think they're good to go. This is forward compatible. We will just have one untagged variant in this type, which will be the stake key.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, we can introduce new ones as tagged.

**Giacomo**-:     There's no ambiguity in that.

### Close 

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Okay, it's been an hour, so maybe we can wrap up and do a quick recap. We've been through the collateral output proposal, which was already in the last check state, but this one needed to have a right number allocated to it put in a corresponding folder on the CIP and then be merged as a proposal. CIP 37 are mostly waiting on the feedback from the research team. CIP 38, waiting for the author. The author has been pinged again. I've also got an answer from the Discord that they are still championing it, and they will be providing an update soon. Good. The CIP 30 event API, still also on hold, probably abandoned or not really going under all of discussions at the moment, so there is no need to pressure that on our side.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  CIP 42, I'm waiting also for the authors to adjust the status and justify the cost model before being emerged as a proposed CIP, also waiting for the implementation to be available on Plutus. We've also got an introduction on CIP 50 for which we'll want to follow up with our focus group, basically, involving various parties from research, from IOG engineering, from the community also, and they are getting to more discussions on the visibility of this CIP, also comparing it with other similar CIPs and see maybe if we can either convert to one solutions or have multiple solutions that can then be proposed through Catalyst for implementation.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  We also just went through CIP 36, which adds a multi-delegation support for the voting mechanism on chain, or more exactly, the voting registration on chain, so that we can have the catalyst voting happening. Agreed on merging that one as it is, and think about the introducing multi key support or scripts credentials later on. And I think we also added a new entry in the CIP 10 registry. And that is it. Thank you all for joining and see you in a month at this time, or in two weeks on your time zone.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: It will be in two weeks at 9:30 AM UTC. At 8:30 AM, sorry.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah, correct. No, at 9:30, right?

**M. Àngels Jover**-: I think it's two hours now, UTC, like [inaudible].

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. This [crosstalk]. Okay, right.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Thank you very much to all and see you in two weeks or in a month, and have a Happy Easter, those who celebrate it.

**Matthias Benkort**-:  Yeah. Cheers. Bye-bye.

**M. Àngels Jover**-: Bye-bye.


---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
