**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)

- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)

- [April 05 2022 Transcript](#april-05-2022-transcript )

  * [Triage](#triage)

    + [PR217- Collateral reward](#pr217)

    + [PR104 - CIP-1856 | Collateral Key derivation](#pr217)

  * [Last Check](#last-check)

    + [PR200 - Add support for Catalyst multi-delegation](#pr200)  

    + [PR208- [CIP-0030] Adding getCollateral function to the connector API](#pr208)

    + [PR215 - CIP-35: Plutus Core Evolution](#pr215)       

  * [Review](#review)

    + [PR209 - [CIP-0030] Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable](#pr209)

    + [PR218 - CIP-42? | New plutus builtin: serialiseBuiltinData](#pr218)

    + [PR222 - CIP-42? | New Plutus Core built-in dataHash](#pr222)

    + [PR220 - CIP-43? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](#pr220) 

    + [PR216 - CIP-40? | Collateral output](#pr216)    

  * [Discussions](#discussions)

    + [CIP-47? | Proposal for open Daedalus or desktop wallet via URL](#pr234)

  * [Close](#close)




## Summary




Rough transcript of 05/04/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  

<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_

</sub>  

Editors meetings are [public](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly), [recorded](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/cip-editors-meeting-42/3) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  







## Editors Meeting Flow




**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  




**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  




**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  




PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  

‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  

‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   

**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  




**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.  







## April 05 2022 Transcript 

**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, ~Duncan Coutts~, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Frederic Johnson~, ~Robert Phair~. 




PR209 - [CIP-0030] Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - PR209 - [CIP-0030] Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable. function for the DApp connector specification. I disagree with the way the CIP is done. I don't think it's a good idea and Matthias agrees with me and there's been no response. So I feel like we're stuck on this waiting for a response.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Next is... Does anybody have any comments about CIP-30 before we move on? Because I think we're just blocked on a response for this one.




### PR234

[CIP-47? | Proposal for open Daedalus or desktop wallet via URL](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/234)




**Sebastian Guillemot** - All right, hearing none, moving on. CIP-47? | Proposal for open Daedalus or desktop wallet via URL Triage is to basically add DApp connector to Daedalus by taking advantage of the URI scheme. To be honest, I'm not super convinced this even needs to be a CIP because the way they want to do it is very much Daedalus-specific and I'm not sure there's a way for them to not do Daedalus-specific, which is my main concern. The reason why is because for the web Cardano stuff, this works, they can use this, but Daedalus only supports a single network per installation Daedalus, and so they want to introduce a new web Cardano test net, and then they have multiple implementations of Daedalus. They want to have like a web Cardano flight for test modes. So this is kind of awkward because this won't really work with other wallets well, and it won't work with DApps well either.




**Matthias Benkort** - It's kind of weird to have a Daedalus-specific CIP in a way.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah.




**Matthias Benkort** - The point of having a CIP would be to, well, have cost compatibility or interop between wallets. So if it is something Daedalus-specific, then [crosstalk 00:01:56].




**Sebastian Guillemot** - What they can standardize is this extension to the web Cardano stuff.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - And then as a side note, they can say, "Oh, and by the way, Daedalus has this Daedalus-specific stuff in case you care." The CIP as is feels like it doesn't add any functionality. It just specifies some Daedalus-specific considerations, which doesn't need to be done as a CIP.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - So this is my main concern [crosstalk 00:02:26].




**Matthias Benkort** - I haven't been through comments, but maybe this is something you've already suggested, or we can make it clearer maybe to suggest as a top-level comments. That the idea in itself of extending the URI scheme to include other parts makes sense, and maybe that's something that could go as a CIP, explaining how to extend it and why would be the extension. But then that's... Well, documenting the Daedalus-specific extension is probably not the right place to do it here, unless this is done in the form of a sort of global registry that also can be used by other wallets for other stuff. But yeah, if it's Daedalus-specific, that doesn't make much sense.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. I've had some discussion with this and we're kind of at an impasse on this one. I'm not sure what they want do about it. I'll try and summarize my comments again and try and move on this.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. We had this one on the agenda anyway, so we can maybe put it as triage for next time or simply comment on it and…




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Anybody else here have comments on this? I'm not sure if anybody from the Daedalus team is here.




**Matthias Benkort** - I think Daniel is here, who is the author of the CIP. I'm not sure if he's listening or hearing anything. 




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yes. He is. He's here.




**Matthias Benkort** - People had problems with sound.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - How do you invite people up to speak?




**Matthias Benkort** - We cannot. Only the host can.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah, you're right.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Do you want me to invite anyone to speak?




**Matthias Benkort** - Maybe Daniel, yeah. Since he's here.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Okay.




**Matthias Benkort** - Thank you, Maria. If Daniel is up to it.




**M. Àngels Jover** - I don't see any username with Daniel. Maybe it's under another nickname?




**Matthias Benkort** - It's Daniel Main. He is in the chat.




**M. Àngels Jover** - I don't see him live right now.




**Matthias Benkort** - Oh, weird. Okay. So maybe he's not they're anymore and our chat is lagging behind. Yeah, I can see too.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Wow. What's happening today?




**Matthias Benkort** - Daniel, are you around?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - So...




**Matthias Benkort** - He shows in the guest list.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah.




**Matthias Benkort** - I bet if he was there, he would've commented maybe on the chat already.




**M. Àngels Jover** - I mean, he is in registered, but it's not live. Maybe I am the only one that can see the live.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Yeah. We don't see that information. Indeed.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Ah, you're right. The chat does not show people who are actually here. It just shows people who have registered.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah.




**M. Àngels Jover** - That's the second tab.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - I see. I see.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Well, then we'll just comment on the pull request itself.




**M. Àngels Jover** - It's PR 234, this one? To put it [crosstalk 00:05:38].




**Sebastian Guillemot** - It's 034.




**Matthias Benkort** - Oh yeah. Not even in [crosstalk 00:05:41].




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Oh. Yeah, no. Yes.




**Matthias Benkort** - We first need to address the points that we just raised and then we can maybe reconsider it for CIP triage.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Okay.




**Matthias Benkort** - So I will just go on that.




### Triage 




#### PR217

 [PR217- Collateral reward](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/217)

#### PR104

 [PR104 - CIP-1856 | Collateral Key derivation](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/104)




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Maybe we can go through the PR 217 and PR 104. Sebastian? Just for triage to see what we can do with that. If you think they are still relevant or not. We had them in the pipeline for a while.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. Yeah. Both these can just be deprecated and closed.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Both of them?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Sorry. Collateral output is the one that stays and should be merged at some point, but reward and key can both be marked as deprecated, or rejected, whichever, and closed.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Then I will let you do that. Yeah, we'll go through the collateral output after that.




### Last Check     




#### PR200

 [PR200 - Add support for Catalyst multi-delegation](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/200)




**Matthias Benkort** - So the next one is CIP-36. The Catalyst multi-delegation support which we have been discussing for a bit.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah.




**Matthias Benkort** - It needed an update, but Mark has been unwell for a few weeks.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. I think there's still some comments that need to be resolved.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. From two weeks ago. These are mostly just to do with mostly documentation changes and wording. Not so much about functionality-wise. I did add a comment a few days ago, I guess a week ago, saying that the current delegation CIP only supports staking public keys, like vkeys and not script keys. So there's two kinds of scripts, right? Native scripts and Plutus scripts. So, trying to register Plutus scripts for voting on Catalyst may be kind of tricky, but I feel like native scripts should be doable. This would be nice because there's a few different projects that are using native scripts now for multisig and it means that for multisig, any amount of data you store in your multisig can build for Catalyst. Notably I was interested about this because for Milkomeda we have the Milkomeda DAO, which stores the funds for the Milkomeda DAO, and obviously the Milkomeda DAO wants to also vote on Catalyst so this specific proposal mix that any amounts that the DAO earns cannot be used for voting on Catalyst, which is kind of unfortunate.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. I'm just reading through your comments also. Probably... Yeah.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - I think extending this CIP to extend to not just public keys, not just vkeys, but also native scripts is probably not too hard, and the hard part [crosstalk 00:09:21].




**Matthias Benkort** - Shouldn't it be just a hash in the end?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. [crosstalk 00:09:26].




**Matthias Benkort** - You don't care much what's the pre images about so long as it's a valid credential. Maybe a Plutus script, native script or a vkey.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. So I think from the actual CDDL specification from the CIP perspective, this is not a hard change. Someone just needs to make it like some sort of or with a tag. The question is just whether or not they want to make that change now or later. I suggest we at least make it now so we have backwards compatibility, and then I'll see this is something for wallets to add support and something for the Catalyst team as well to add support when they scan the chain.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah, that's the field number two in the CDDL, right? In the key registration record.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah.




**Matthias Benkort** - Which currently is staking pub key.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah.




**Matthias Benkort** - Which should really be... For Jörmungandr if I call correctly, Jörmungandr doesn't use hashes. Right? It uses plain keys. So there might be-




**Sebastian Guillemot** - It shouldn't matter for Jörmungandr because this is not who you're delegating to. This is just who is delegating. So from Jörmungandr's perspective, it's still just voting keys. Do you see what I mean?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. But if we put hashes instead of keys, don't we have a [crosstalk 00:10:47] there with [crosstalk 00:10:48]?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - These hashes are not the voting key. These hashes are just who's delegating. Remember with Catalyst, you delegate to a voting key, right? So I'm saying we should allow delegating from a native script to a voting key, but the voting key still stays the same.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah. The voting key on the Jörmungandr side stays.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. That's why I think the change is probably not too hard, but at the very least, if you don't have time just make a tag-




**Matthias Benkort** - This is just to determine this snapshot, right? That snapshot that goes, and how many funds is allocated to every voting key at the beginning of the voting round.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Can we add Kevin to speak?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yep. I think so.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Sure.




**Matthias Benkort** - Oh. I'm right back. Got a call.




**M. Àngels Jover** - We can only have four people on screen, so we are three now plus the screen share. Maybe Sebastian you can not screen share so we can talk to Kevin and have it... Okay.




**Kevin Hammond** - Hi. Hi, everyone. You hearing me?




**M. Àngels Jover** - Yeah. Clear and loud.




**Kevin Hammond** - Hi, good. Yeah. Sebastian, we've been looking at this. It's an interesting idea. We have two issues with it. One of them is to do with how it changes the voting. We need to think about that quite carefully, so we don't want to rush into this. The second is we would need to add logic into the tooling to essentially replicate the script actions. That would include replicating the context for the script. We don't have any capability to do that at the moment. We would also, if we included native scripts, need to think about how time locks will work. So we can't simply add multiscript, multisig scripts without also having a think about how the Allegra time locking will work. So, what I would propose to do here would be to set up CIP so that it is upwards-compatible to allow script hashes, but not to do it in the immediate future.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. I think if we just change the stake pub key to instead just be a structure with a tag that's like zero is pub key and that's it, and then later we can add one as native script and later two as Plutus script, something like that.




**Kevin Hammond** - Exactly. So we make it a union type and it's only got one network element, which is [inaudible 00:14:02]. We're happy to do that. Then we can think properly about all these different types of scripts. As I was saying, I don't think it's ever going to be possible to use a Plutus script, or at least it would be quite hard because you would need to bring in all the script context and you would need to execute that from within the... They call it the snapshot tool. So I think you would need to be basically running a node within the snapshot tool to be able to set up the context and execute the Plutus script. That looks very difficult. It might also cause some issues over how the votes were actually set up. So from a semantic perspective, that's quite a, potentially a big change.




**Matthias Benkort** - I'm not sure to get the point though, because here it's really about the staking, right? So-




**Kevin Hammond** - It's to do with how we translate the stake into the voting rights at the snapshot times.




**Matthias Benkort** - So all you need to do at the snapshot times is to make sure that some staking credentials is attributed to some stake, but that's already what the ledger does. Right? If you've already delegated your stake using a Plutus script, that means you have published this delegation certificate on chain. It has been checked by the ledger already and your stake is active under that credential. So just specifying the credentials at the moment of your voting arbitration doesn't really add any complexity. Right?




**Kevin Hammond** - Okay. Let's think about that. What I'm proposing is we discuss it properly rather than-




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Okay. I'm fully on board with that. We can have as you said, a forward-compatible format.




**Kevin Hammond** - Exactly.




**Matthias Benkort** - And see what are the consequences. But I do think there is no really consequences, so we can bring the discussion to another time. Yeah.




**Kevin Hammond** - Well, the consequence concerned about are, they're more to do with the semantics of who can vote, how you control the vote. So we want to think about that, Sebastian.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Okay. Well, let's change this to this union type with a tag, merge to the CIP, then we can open another CIP that adds the native script, and then we can discuss from there for another voting round.







**Kevin Hammond** - We've got a technical problem in that we can't seem to do anything with this PR because Mark owns it, and also the history, of course as you said before, has got a bit confused.




**Matthias Benkort** - I thought it would be able to do that, so maybe I can try. Yeah, you don't have the rights on the CIP repo, so maybe you cannot push on mark PR.




**Kevin Hammond** - Yeah. I don't think so. I think...




**Matthias Benkort** - I think I can. The two things we need to add here as the... The derivation path, right? That was discussed a while ago already for the voting key, and this [inaudible 00:17:24] forward-compatible, changing the CDDL.




**Kevin Hammond** - Yeah. But if you could give us write access. So [crosstalk 00:17:30]-




**Matthias Benkort** - No.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - The other option is just to close this one.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Again-




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Go back to this one and just do whatever. Or close both of them and open a new PR is another option.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. With all the history. But, okay. I mean, those are the two changes we want to get in, right? That the duration path for the voting key and the change of the CDDL. With that, we're good for merging this proposal as draft.




**Kevin Hammond** - Yeah. I think Jack, he wanted to tidy things up to make sure we properly responded to all of the comments as well. We'd like to do that. If we can close these down, take a... I guess it's probably a... Is it a forked PR and then progress that as the set, that would be great.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yep. Okay.




**Kevin Hammond** - Good.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. We can do that and maybe do the validation offline and get it merged. I don't think we need to wait yet again for the next meeting for the review. Although the next meeting is only in a week, so we can also do a last check for the next meeting with all the changes in a new PR and the comments addressed. Does that work for everyone?




**Kevin Hammond** - Yep. That should be good.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay.




**Kevin Hammond** - Great. So we'll progress that. I'll progress that with you, Matthias. Is that right?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Yeah. Let's take it offline. I think we've been discussing this one for a while. We're pretty aligned on the next steps so we don't necessarily need to discuss it online again.




**Kevin Hammond** - Yeah. We're actually talking to various wallet implementers about supporting this at the moment.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah.




**Kevin Hammond** - This one is [inaudible 00:19:37].




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Taking a few notes and I will comment at the end of the call.




**M. Àngels Jover** - So I understand that you are going to take the conversation offline and we are going to either merge it or change it in a new PR. Right?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. And probably merge the new PR also right away since it's already been discussed.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Okay. So we can-




**Matthias Benkort** - The new PR is just the technical issues because the author is not responding on this one, so.




**M. Àngels Jover** - So we can take it off of the agenda. Right? next meeting? Perfect.




**Matthias Benkort** - No. Or if we really have to we'll put it as last check for next week, but I don't think we'll have to. We can handle that offline.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Okay.




**Kevin Hammond** - Thanks, everyone.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Thank you, Kevin.




**Kevin Hammond** - So...




**M. Àngels Jover** - Sorry. Sorry, Kevin. I just removed him while he was talking.




**Matthias Benkort** - Kevin is gone.




**M. Àngels Jover** - My apologies, Kevin. You were talking.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - We have to move on to ...




**Kevin Hammond** - I was going to say...




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Oh, go for it.




**Kevin Hammond** - I was going to say, Sebastian, we'll set up a call with you and others discuss this probably in about two months' time.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. You mean the extension with the multisig.




**Kevin Hammond** - The extension with the multisig.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay.




**Kevin Hammond** - Brilliant. Okay. I can drop now.




**Matthias Benkort** - Bye.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Thank you very much, Kevin.




#### PR208

 [PR208- [CIP-0030] Adding getCollateral function to the connector API](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/208)




**Matthias Benkort** - So, [CIP-0030] Adding getCollateral function to the connector API We discussed this one last time already. All right. It makes sense.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. I think this implementation made sense to me.




**Matthias Benkort** - It made sense also to have it as an extension of the CIP-30, this one. I think the only thing we were maybe discussing was whether or not we want to add it to the existing CIP-30, or to have that as another CIP which is extending the API.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - I would just merge it I think to CIP-30.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. I mean, it's quite small enough, this one, and it's really core to the API itself. But then there is this question of versioning of this CIP connector. When do you suppose [crosstalk 00:22:29]?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah, so the way we're handling versioning, at least the way I envision it is that in the CIP-30, we have two sets of functions. Experimental functions and non-experimental functions. Any new CIP should add stuff to the experimental section. And then whenever enough wallets implement, they would move from experimental to main and then bump their version number is the way I envisioned it. That way people can still make changes without bumping the version number and everything is in the experimental [inaudible 00:23:02] space.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah, but the experimental was also a CIP [inaudible 00:23:06] discussion. Right?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah, but I think that was merged already.




**Matthias Benkort** - I don't see it on the CIP-30. Experimental... Or was it maybe merged. Yeah, it's in still open PR. That was the experimental API version. Okay. That's another thing.




**Matthias Benkort** - I'm pretty sure we discussed that experimental approach a while back, but it's definitely not merged in the CIP. Oh yeah, it is, actually. Sorry. At the bottom. My bad.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah, it was merged back in February.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - That's the way to manage the version number I think that makes the most sense. The get collateral one is the only one that's kind of awkward because we're changing an API that everybody already supports. We're just documenting it.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - That was especially a case of an awkward thing where we already [crosstalk 00:24:27] one, so there's no point going from the experimental first.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Then the awkward thing is how and when you decide to move from experimental to non-experimental. It's once multiple wallets implement it, but it's a bit vague, right? How many wallets and...




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. Probably what we need to do is make this more formal, add it, change the CIP-30 that adds to the governance of CIP-30 that says governance of the CIP is that it should only be merged if X wallets, blah, blah, blah. Include the functionality, something like that.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Maybe having explicit versioning in the CIP. I mean, for every single function that there is, like this one should be supported if you are in version 1.0. If you are in version 1.1, you should also support that function and that function. And then from that, it's very clear. You can ask the wallet version and depending on the version number, you know exactly which version they support, which API they have available.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah.




**Matthias Benkort** - Or an alternative, and that's why I was maybe advocating having another CIP for that, would be instead of a version number, you get the list of CIPs that your connector supports. Would be CIP-30, CIP I don't know, 46, for instance. And 46 is the one that introduces the get collateral API. So you know from that list exactly which feature are supported. That allows also wallet implementers to implement features that are important to them. Not necessarily in sequential order, but just say, "We support this set of features. You have the list here," but maybe we don't support this one that was introduced in between these two other features because we don't care about it. And we don't make it mandatory to implement every API as you upgrade versions of your wallets. See what I mean?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. That's definitely another approach. We could even do both at the same time because I don't think they conflict each other either.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. I don't want to be too much on that one for this particular one so I think this one is fine to merge as is, but maybe I will actually make a proposal for handling new versions of our additions to CIP-30 in the form of-




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. We definitely need some PR that just adds some governance to this document. So I bring those [crosstalk 00:27:08]. Yeah.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Governance and structure. A bit more on how to update, because as a wallet implementer, this sounds not like fun right now to maintain all the different versions of the CIP-30.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Okay. Yeah. It's kind of tough. We'll have issues with people not wanting to support the message signing, but message signing was not a separate CIP. It was introduced in the original CIP, blah, blah, blah. Somebody will need to sit down and figure that out at some point.




**Matthias Benkort** - Right now it's still draft so what I would suggest would be to say, move this one to actually active. Merge that pull request, making the API collateral something part of the core CIP-30. Move it as active and sort of settle in stone a bit the primary API, and then define updates through another CIP and define how we would implement updates and extensions on the CIP-30 in the future, because there will also be extension. But at least settle that first part in stone now that it's become pretty stable or discussed for quite a while, and it's implemented now by most wallet provider anyway. So we have also the proof of activity, in that sense. Do you agree?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. Makes sense to me.




**Matthias Benkort** - Thank you. I will discuss that with Robert as well.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - In the meantime, I've approved this PR.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Just, approving comment. Let's move this one.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay.




**M. Àngels Jover** - There's still one missing approval. Matthias, are you going to approve it later?




**Matthias Benkort** - No, I just did. I was just commenting at the same time, so it took a bit of time and we can go for it.




#### PR215

 [PR215 - CIP-35: Plutus Core Evolution](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/215)




**M. Àngels Jover** - Shall we move to the next item? PR 215, Plutus core evolution.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - I just noticed we have two tentative CIP-35s. This conflicts with the Daedalus one.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah, I will tweak the numbers. I think we've made it clear last time, and on the read me also. Well, people are not supposed to be allocating numbers themselves. They might try, but we'll just modify it at the same time.




**Matthias Benkort** - Michael is saying it's confusing. Yes, but it's been clarified last time now, so we have tentative numbers on the front page. Yeah, I told you pick a number and that was fine. We keep track of the numbers on the front page. As you can see, the tentative number for the Plutus core evolution is 35. So, you are not the one conflicting here and it's fine. But mind you, we have all the rights to modify the PR if we need to adjust the numbers. We will do so upon merging if needed. But that's not the case for Plutus evolution, which is already the candidate for number 35. So that's fine.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. The Plutus core evolution, that was also reviewed last time, and we are mainly in last check, right? If there was any last comments on this one, but I think there was none.




**M. Àngels Jover** - No. Last comments are from February 14.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. So we're good with that. There has been already two, at least. Even three now I think. Proposals already following this process, people seem to be happy with it. Yeah. You never know if people are really happy though.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Weeks ago, there was commented that maybe it would be good to add an extra status call at adopted between proposed and active, but we haven't.




**Matthias Benkort** - That's also Michael's question in the chat and that was what I was suggesting last week. Since this one is a process, it should be I think merged as active. Mainly because, well, there has been already three CIPs following this process which shows already activity, and it's not like we're wait for an implementation or some actual code or platforms to adopt it. It's really more of a process and we deem it now ready, active. It's supported by the core team, the core Plutus team, which mean that we don't even need to check with them if it's okay because the process actually comes from them. So, yeah. I've just approved. Maybe just before merging, we will change the status to active, if that's fine for everyone.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Looks it is. Shall we move to the next item?




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Michael, if you want to push the change to move it to active, feel free. Otherwise I will just do it at the end of the call. Well, just this one approval though, I think, because I was the only one that approved. So Seba, unless you disagree, voice yourself, but otherwise...




**M. Àngels Jover** - Now we have both approvals.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay, good. So yeah, just the active status and we can merge.




### Review




#### PR209

 [PR209 - [CIP-0030] Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/209)




**Matthias Benkort** - Now, more to the review, which was the next item was the... Yeah. Optional network ID parameters. Yeah. What Sebastian was discussing at the beginning. We're saying yeah, this one we disagree and the author has been quite inactive since then so we can simply park it on the site and wait for updates from the author.




**Matthias Benkort** - Can we talk about the other builds in CIP? Yeah. We're just coming to it. So, CIP-32 and CIP-32. Those one have the same numbers precisely because they are conflicting, also in the sense. So I don't think it makes sense to merge both of them because they are attacking the same problem and if one of them is actually adopted, the other one should be deprecated or rendered obsolete. I think it's the one we wrote with Sebastian on the CRS built-in data that has been adopted in the Plutus code base. Maybe you can invite Michael on chat before he leaves.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Sure.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. It's the one we are implementing these days. That means we can probably deprecate the second one, unless it makes sense to also have the second one. I don't know. And have the two ways. This one's redundant to me to have both ways, but I don't know. Michael?




**Matthias Benkort** - I don't think so. Yes, it's-




**M. Àngels Jover** - I need to remove my screen sharing before invite him. Ah, no.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Now you have Michael on the screen.




**Michael** - Can you hear me?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. We can hear you.




**Michael** - Okay, good. Yeah. So, it's redundant I think.




#### PR218

 [PR218 - CIP-42? | New plutus builtin: serialiseBuiltinData](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/218)




#### PR222

 [PR222 - CIP-42? | New Plutus Core built-in dataHash](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/222)




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Talking about PR number 218. One thing we would have to add before merging it as proposed or active will be the cost model I believe, that was left out initially.




**Michael** - Yeah. I think the Plutus... Wait. Can you hear me?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah.




**Michael** - Okay, good. I think that Kenneth has been working on that so I think we could probably put something up there with the Plutus team. I think this is maybe something that I should clarify in the evolution one maybe as a follow up, but I think it would be fine to merge it as draft with a high-level description of what the serialization function is. So, say something like based on the work in this pull request, we believe that it is basically linear in the size of the thing. Exact parameters will be determined empirically or something. That I think is sufficient.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay.




**Michael** - Yeah. I think that's fine. It doesn't have to be 100% precise, I think.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Okay. So we can add that and then move the CIP as proposed since there is a clear path to active now, and move it to active as soon as this becomes available in the Plutus built in, which should be part of the Babbage hard fork as far as I understood. Or Vasil hard fork? I don't remember what's the name anymore.




**Michael** - Yeah. That sounds right.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. About the second one, the PR 222, you were saying this won't be implemented because it's redundant.




**Michael** - Yes.




**Matthias Benkort** - Do we have the last here? It was in the chat, but I'm not sure if it is active or not. It is Vasil, thanks. So, because Las is the author of the second one, which was basically trying to solve the same problem, but in a more straight way, I would say. In a more direct way. So not having this extra serialization step, but just going for the hash straight away. So there was a bunch of discussions on it, but it's been pretty evolved since then.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. He doesn't seem to be here. Maria, do you see him as live or? Las Safin.




**M. Àngels Jover** - No.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. He just registered, but probably didn't join either, so okay. We'll comment then on PR number 222 and move that CIP. Probably merge it as deprecated or obsolete.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Yeah. You mentioned, Matthias, Mlabs? Who do you mention that you want to ?




**Matthias Benkort** - Las. Las Safin. He's from MLabs.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Ah, Las. No, he's not. He is registered but not live.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. Okay. So there is still room for CIPs that are rejected, and I think it makes sense to still record it as a rejected CIP, this one, to show that there has been discussions between two alternatives and we went for a first one that is a bit more composable, in my opinion. Okay. We'll comment on that one.




**Matthias Benkort** - Maybe Michael also, if you have a rationale for why you went for PR 218 instead of 222, that would be also helpful maybe as a closing comment. I am a bit biased in the story since I'm the co-author of one of them, so obviously I think mine is better, but that's biased.




**Matthias Benkort** - I'm not sure. Okay. Sure. Okay. So yeah, feel free to comment on the pull request then. I will also add some top after the meeting.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Just a quick question. PR 218, are you going to merge it?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Once we've done these little additions I was mentioning about the choice of cost model, as Michael was explaining.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Okay.




**Matthias Benkort** - The cost model is still to be determined empirically, but it should be somewhat linear in the size of the built-in data based on what we've been observing so far. That's good enough for now to have it as proposed CIP and once the implementation is finalized and available, we will update it as active.




**M. Àngels Jover** - What do you want me to do with this? To put it on hold and discuss it in a few meetings or? In the agenda, I mean.




**Matthias Benkort** - Hmm? Sorry.




**M. Àngels Jover** - What do you want me to do? To put it on hold until the change is made and we can then discuss it later or?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah, I think we can put it as last check for next week.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Okay.




**Matthias Benkort** - I will do the change somewhere between now and next week and we'll be able to do our last review and see if it's okay.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Perfect.




**Matthias Benkort** - So we had the last one, I think, on the list.







#### PR220

 [PR220 - CIP-43? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/220)




**M. Àngels Jover** - Yeah. PR 220.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. Plutus support for pairings over curve BLS12-381, which was the one for which we wanted to have some help of cryptographers, which I haven't been able to get so far. So, we'll keep looking, actually. But yeah, this one is hard to progress for us as Editors because we are missing the expertise here that is necessary to judge. Yeah. That's the idea. I mean, I trust in Iñigo, the current author, what he's writing and specifying, but it's good to have conversation with people that can actually contribute to the conversation. So yeah, I will just keep that on my list to try to find someone.




**M. Àngels Jover** - I will ask you in a couple of weeks if you find someone. Okay?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. We can park it for now and see if there is anyone either in IOG or within the research cycle. Someone that can share some time on that.




#### PR216

 [PR216 - CIP-40? | Collateral output](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/216)




**M. Àngels Jover** - Good. The last item that we have was PR 216, the collateral output. I know that you had a discussion at the beginning of the meeting, but I don't know if we just left that for now to discuss in the...




**Matthias Benkort** - I don't know. Sebastian, what do you think?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - One more time? Sorry.




**Matthias Benkort** - The collateral output. Do you want to discuss it now or keep it for later?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - No. You can discuss if you want, but this has already been decided. This is already part of the CDDL, already implemented in the ledger spec




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. So it's in a good way to actually becoming active.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - We can have a discussion about if you want, but I don't think any discussion we'll have would actually be reflected into the protocol.




**M. Àngels Jover** - So this is going to be merged?




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah, I would merge it unless somebody has any objection.




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. It's been around for a while already. You've been discussing it with Jared and Andre, I imagine.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yep.




**Matthias Benkort** - Okay. So we can have it as proposed, also following the same paths, and moving to active as soon as it's becoming really available in the ledger. So, moving it to last check for next week. Or we'll change the status, assign the right CIP number and move forward with that.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah. Sounds good to me.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Okay.




### Close




**M. Àngels Jover** - We have five minutes left. Do you want to do a recap, Matthias?




**Matthias Benkort** - Yeah. I think people appreciated that last time. Just Kevin has a question on the chats. I'm not sure if still have the context. Are you talking about the search for a cryptographer, Kevin?




**Matthias Benkort** - Maybe Kevin is gone, so okay. We'll take it off band. That's fine. Okay. Let's recap.




**Matthias Benkort** - We went through the collateral reward collateral key derivation CIPs, which are going to be marked as deprecated and likely closed. We could also merge them as rejected CIPs just for the record and keeping the history.




**Matthias Benkort** - Oh, wait a minute.




**M. Àngels Jover** - I took some notes so I can do the recap on behalf of Matthias. We are going to have a PR 200 for last check in the next meeting. PR 208, adding collateral function to the connector API has been merged. Also PR 215, Plutus score evolution has been merged. PR 222 is going to be rejected. This one is the PR that was competing with PR 218 that finally is going to be implemented. Here it would be good to have a rationale why PR 218 has been chosen over to PR 222. And we have PR 218 for last check in our next meeting.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Also, PR 216, collateral output. This is going to be merged. Right, Sebastian? I am not 100% sure of this last one.




**Sebastian Guillemot** - Yeah.




**M. Àngels Jover** - Okay. So that's it for today. Just remember you all that next meeting is going to be next Tuesday. It will be in the United States time zone. This means that it's going to be held at seven UTC. Well, with you all there and the ones you cannot make it, as always we are going to record the session. Thank you very much and have a lovely day and week. Bye-bye!




---

## Extra




### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)




:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).







### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  




_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_

![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")




### Understanding CIPs further




[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)

[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
