**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [May 24 2022 Transcript](#may-24-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [PR241 CIP-0989? | ISPO KYC_CDD](#pr241)    
    + [CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](#pr226)
    + [CIP-0037? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge](#pr163)    
    + [CIP-0039? | Smart Contract Software Licenses](#pr185)
    + [CIP-0046? | Prepay Min Fixed Fee](#pr190)    
  * [Last Check](#last-check)        
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](#pr242)
    + [CIP-0052? | Cardano audit best practice guidelines](#pr252)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
    + [CIP-0014, CIP-0015, CIP-0016, CIP-0025, CIP-0028, CIP-0029, CIP-1852, CIP-1853, CIP-1855 status updates. ](#pr256)
    + [Bootstrap first draft of the Plutus contract blueprint](#pr258)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 24/05/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## May 24 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, ~Duncan Coutts~, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Frederic Johnson~, Robert Phair. 
**Guests**: 

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Can you give me a few minutes? I will connect with Sebastien, Robert, and Matthias.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Hi, sorry. I thought that by default you weren't on mute.

**Robert Phair**: Oh. Can anybody [inaudible 00:02:51] ? My mute button that away. Can anybody hear my voice?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Yes, Robert.

**Robert Phair**: Okay, thank you.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  We hear a lot of background noise. Maybe we can do something. Let me...

**Robert Phair**: I have just one question; how do we send text messages while we are looking at each other's faces here?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I would use the general channel to ask questions.

**Robert Phair**: Okay. To open a separate window, yeah. Okay. I'll have to duplicate this tab and then... Okay, I'm using the web-based Discord. Okay. Yeah, I'll see if I can get that to work. Okay, I'm muting my mic when I'm not talking, because I can't suppress this noise. Okay, thanks.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  This is going to be a test. This is the very first time that we are doing the CIP meetings on Discord, so please bear with us if everything is not going as smooth as we expect to go in a few weeks. So welcome everyone. This is CIP meeting number 45. I am going to share the agenda with all of you. It is in the event...

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Oh God, so many new things today. Well... I'm sorry.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Yeah.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Well, I have the agenda in another place, so don't worry. We are going to rapidly sort this out. We have today with us, Sebastien Guillemot, Matthias Benkort, and Robert Phair as editors. In the agenda today we have in triage PR241 CIP-0989? | ISPO KYC_CDD. So I'm going to share this and maybe some of the editors want to make... A brief summary on it. Matthias, Sebastien, I haven't heard you, but I have unmuted you. Can you speak? Are you able to speak?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Sebastien is typing.

**Matthias Benkort**: Oh actually, yes, maybe.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Good.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I don't think it's my mic. Okay. So do you want to start with this first item on triage?

### Triage

#### PR241
[PR241 CIP-0989? | ISPO KYC_CDD](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/241)

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah. So, whatever, back to getting stuff set up. Yeah, this was proposed by IT, as a way for basically people who participate in ISPOs to KYC themselves, I did not see anything particularly wrong with the proposal itself, other than the fact that it uses LaTeX inside Markdown. But I think that will actually coincidentally support this very soon, if not already... Maybe it's already set. I think the main thing for this is that we probably need to Stake Pool input on this one, because they're the main people that will be leveraging this. And so far, there hasn't been any Stake Pool that has... Commented on this. I know that Robert, you reached out to SPOCRA to see if they had any input on this. Did you hear back from them yet?

**Robert Phair**: Yeah. It's mainly to just see if they had any objection. And there were probably one or two Stake Pool, if I know, that would've had... If there were objections for privacy implications, they probably would've raised their voice about it. I think like you said, it's just a friendly for voluntary participation. So it is in the KYC which can be... For us, it will be mandated for projects anyway, and they just want a reasonable way of doing it. But I think the fact that there were no objections, it sort of implied consent. I haven't been able to take anything, not farther than that.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I think that communication is going to be challenging today, because there's a lot of noise Robert from your side.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah Robert, can you try getting the native Discord application instead of the browser version? It will probably help improve the audio quality.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Okay. So what do we want to do with this CIP then? Do we want to wait until we get more feedback? I mean, I personally do not find issue with it. So if there isn't any feedback from everybody else, I don't mind... Moving along. It'd be good to get some feedback from more than just one person on this though. I do know that has some cryptography as well. Personally, I did not see an issue with the cryptography being used; I think it's fairly standard. But I'm also not a cryptographer either, but we've done stuff similar to this in other CIPs in the past. So I don't think this is an issue.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So shall we leave a little bit more time to get more comments and maybe discuss it in a few weeks Sebastien?

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, it could be good to get least one person who's not... Who is with Stake Pool to comment on this, it would be my preference. You could possibly ping IOG to have them more explicitly get feedback on this. Because usually people post their CIPs in the Cardano forums or some other location if they haven't done any of this. So we also can't really blame people for not engaging with the CIP.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So what would be the next steps? Reaching someone of at IOG and try to get them involved with this one?

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  So this proposal is by IOG. They're the ones who wrote this proposal. So it would be asking IOG to more practically reach out to Stake Pool for comment to see what they think this.

##### Discord discussion on the PR

**rphair [COSD]**: That sounds good to me & I'll send another (second) call to SPOCRA but I agree it would be good to ask Ben O'Hanlon to PUT IT IN THE SPO NEWSLETTER
@ IOG
Ben is usually responsible about getting ahead of these issues

#### PR226
 [PR226, CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/226)

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. So I have taken note of that. This was opened by John, so maybe comment that with him. So if you are okay, we can move to the second item on the agenda, which is PR226, CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification. We can see this here. Maybe Sebastien, can you make a little summary of this one? This was requested by Matthias to have this PR commented in this session today.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  What did he recommend?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  He pinged me and said that it would be good to review this one. Here we have the comment. Let's maybe have this one on the agenda for the next CIP meeting. I feel it kind of missed to include it earlier. I don't know if Matthias is having issues with his mic.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Maybe I haven't unmute him.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I don't know why I can't unmute him. Oh, I mean real-time issues, right? We can always go back to Crowddcast if this is still happening. Hi Matthias. Now I can hear you. Or almost.

**Matthias Benkort**: This almost works actually.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Yeah, yeah. Clear and loud, yeah.

**Matthias Benkort**: Okay. Okay, good. So yeah, I just said that at the time to bring attention to the CIP, just because yeah, it was hanging there, but we sort of missed it completely. So I don't think of necessarily doing a complete review of it, or a need to take any actions on it just yet. But it's more to... Yeah, to track this and bring it to the light.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah. So this CIP will not run into the same discussion we had for CIP 25, the NFT standard and the same discussion we had for... I forget the number of the one for the fungible token standard, which is to say that some tokens are already minted, but want to add this data after the fact.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  So the problem with this proposal is that, they're basically saying, "Oh yeah, you'll use the same policy for... And you made it a 808." This doesn't help existing projects, and doesn't describe what happens if somebody overrides their existing media in the future. But this is more of a Cardano issue than an issue with a specific proposal. And I'm not sure if there's anything that they can do with this.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Since this proposal is isolated to a new metadata tag, a new label, it's not overlapping with anybody else's proposals. So I don't think frankly speaking, there's a reason to reject it, given that it... There's no kind of overlap with other people that have, so this isn't stop people from making competing standards. I think the proposal itself could be refined a bit. Right now it's kind of unnecessarily long for Twitter links and some other stuff that probably should not go into the CIP itself. So we are going to do this kind of material cleanups.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  It'd be good to know if anybody intends to actually implement this specific standard. So we could just say, okay, well, there's nothing wrong with this standard, headway speaking. And it's a fairly simple one too. So we could merge it, but it'd be good to know if there's at least one marketplace that actually is interested in this idea and to see what they think, or if this is just a one-time standard. Do you know if any marketplace has commented on this issue? I don't think so. I think all these links are just people who think it would be a good idea to have something like this.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I mean, we have comments from Matthias, Robert.

**Matthias Benkort**: No, it has been showing a few tweets. I'm not quite sure. I haven't checked, so I'm not sure what marketplaces think of it. But yeah, generally speaking, I do agree with Sebastien, that there is no particular conflict in merging that as a proposed CIP, as long as maybe we have a clear path to active, that is perhaps one marketplace or at least one actor, which is interested in adopting it, and something that can be then reflected upon.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  And are we going to reach out the marketplace in order to review this, or how do you want to proceed?

**Matthias Benkort**: So, we could put it as a last check for next time maybe, and comment in the meantime to make sure that the author adds a clear path to active section mentioning... Yeah, so there is probably one marketplace that is going on with that CIP. And also just to have a... Two weeks period of last check and potentially hear from people that if we have it brought to the light.

##### Discord discussion on the PR

**kieransimkin** - I can't see any reason to reject it
My mic's not working. 
I will comment I like the general idea but i think the CIP needs a bit of editorial tidying
@KtorZ We'd definitely look at implementing it at Artifct

**KtorZ**:
👌  thanks for pointing out

**rphair [COSD]** — 24/05/2022
That also sounds best to ask the author to ask for feedback from their own community... even if they support competing proposals usually they have a good dialogue 🙂
(NFTs)

**kieransimkin— 24/05/2022**:
I'm always happy to engage on these things if they're brought to my attention 😉

**havealoha — 24/05/2022**:
None of the markets seemed interested in CIP-0044, I'm not inclined to further refine a proposal that wouldn't be adopted.
Thank you all for reviewing it.

**kieransimkin — 24/05/2022**:
We'd look at it, but it'd be very low down the priorities list, since we already have a process for verifying projects that works fine(ish)

**havealoha — 24/05/2022**:
Feel free to take it how it is and modify as necessary. My inspiration was based on how difficult it was to get a project verified on cnft.io. however jpg.store was relatively painless.


#### PR163
 [PR163 CIP-0037? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/163)

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. So just let's move this to, let's and ping the author. So if we move to the next PR. This is PR163, and is dynamic saturation based on pledge. And the internet is not going super fast today.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, I think on this one, was this one of the local PRs where the IOG researchers said they would comment... I mean were kind of looking for that?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  It's this one over here.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Right. Last time we talked about it, we got some response from IOG on the topic. They said they would maybe look into it in more detail, but I'm not sure if anything has come out of any of these discussions And it's the main block or anything related to Stake Pool parameters switching.

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah. So the latest update I had on the topic, and it's something I just commented on CIP 50, which is that the research team is actually working on a new simulation engine to run these sort of models into it, and see how they behaves with different actors, different behaviors. Which they just published a abstract introduction. I'm sharing the link on the chat. The engine is not yet available publicly. I understood that this is something they have planned to do, although there is no timeframe yet. And the idea would then be to have this engine to use to search this space for possible solutions and for... Well, exploring all those ideas that there is, and compare them to the current system to see whether or not those various ideas improves part of the system in the right direction.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So, shall we wait for this one until we have more information?

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, because we've discussed this proposal in the past. So we can re-have the discussion if people really want to. But at the same time, I think we're going to be blocked on the same point, which is we'll have discussion and say... If someone influence this, it's going to have to be IOG, and then blocked on the same point.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So the next steps with this one is maybe here we will... If there is some kind of activity on it, and be reactive, or do you want to actively reach out to IOG on this one, accept the comments?

**Matthias Benkort**: We have reached out to IOG many times already, and they are aware of the proposals. It's just the research team currently has no bandwidth to talk to them in more details and to formulate an answer. So what I would actually suggest for this proposal, CIP 50 and other in the like, to be merged as-is as soon as they have reached a good enough level of discussions and iterations, which is the case, I think for CIP 37, we can just proceed merging them as proposed CIPs with the assumptions that... Yeah, they need to be assessed by the engineering and the research team from IOG in order to move forward to active or reject it. But there is not much we can do. I think beyond that as part of the CIP process.

#### PR185
 [CIP-0039? | Smart Contract Software Licenses](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/185)


**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. I am taking notes. Okay. So next one that we have in triage, and let me open it... Is CIP 185, a smart contract software licenses. I don't see there has been activity.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah. So this one has been implemented in SundaySwap if I remember correctly. So those who were going to be implementing it, I'm not sure if anybody else ended up implementing it. I remember when we talked about it in the past, there was some discussion about whether this is actually legally meaningful, a question which I am not qualified to answer. That being said, the proposal itself had no issues, it's implemented in SundaySwap, which is a project with real users. So, I don't see a reason not to approve this and merge it

**Matthias Benkort**: Well, Michael made a quite meaningful comment that is, there is a lack of rationale section for each other proposal that sort of justify the choices made in the proposal. So that's something which I think should be added before we merge it. And yeah, we'll have to tweak it with the number, because there has been a few proposals merged in between.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah. But I think Michael's comment basically Cardano's done the same discussion. I think we had were... Be based off the fact that... You can submit whatever. Is this actually legally meaningful to do this as a transaction level, which I'm not convinced to be the case. I'm not really a legal expert on this.

**Matthias Benkort**: I imagine the rationale at the moment is that it's kind of first come, first serve. So the first one to publish the license takes effectively, because there is no signature whatsoever in the current design scheme. So that's why the rationale section could be interesting.

**Matthias Benkort**: Something that we think would also be valuable on that proposal would be an actual binary specification of the formats by the CDDL spec. We just mentioned that for CIP 25, but as soon as you have an on-chain format like that with different structure type. I think it's good to just have this... A little piece of CDDL that explains without any ambiguity what the format is. And since it's also using a label, we probably want to register that label in the CIP 10... Just for the sake of centralizing all the labels in one place. So that would be the few edits I would request before merging anything.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, the CDDL comment is a good one. Historically we haven't made the CDDL specification requirement. We were getting CIPs that add a new transaction, maybe get a format approved. But maybe it

**Matthias Benkort**: Should be,

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  We should had a lot of cases. Yeah. It just leaves things way too unspecified. It might be it's

**Matthias Benkort**: We want to make them a lot easier to process. Yeah. As a separate file, we started doing it at least for JSON scheme more and more, but it also makes sense for CDDL stuff.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah.

**Matthias Benkort**: Especially when it's quite succinct like that, it's not much to write. 10 lines of CDDLs to... Write down the format.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So you want to move to the next one?

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah. And I will comment on the PR request with those items, discuss if I can agree that is... And then reassess next meeting.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Shall we add it to next meeting agenda as part of the triage or review?

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, for review or last check depending on the state.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay.

**Matthias Benkort**: Because I mean the proposal itself, I don't think there is any big issue with it. It's more those little sections that we need to be completed. But yeah, I think review next time would be...

#### PR190
 [PR190 CIP-0046? | Prepay Min Fixed Fee](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/190)

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. So next it item on the agenda is PR190 CIP-0046? | Prepay Min Fixed Fee.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  To be honest, I don't remember discussing on this one, because it's been quite a long time. Maybe we could look of the meeting notes to see what we discussed on this?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  The meeting--

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  [inaudible 00:27:02].

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Do you want me to go to any place specifically?

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, I remember reading the proposal thinking that this is not a technically sound proposal. I remember the author disagreed with me on this, but I don't remember what the conclusion of that discussion was.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So maybe we--

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  At the end of the day, this API also depends on the same blocker that the other... CIPs that need IOG's reports have. Because this also changes the way that delegation rewards are paid out to try and help with the same issues that the other CIPs mentioned. So this all ends up being kind of bundled with the same thing?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So shall we leave it in standby until IOG has more capacity to take on those?

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah.

**Matthias Benkort**: I would proceed the same way as CIP 37, which is, have them merge as proposed and add a first item on the path to active would be to get a clear assessment from IOG/ the research team at IOG, possibly using this new simulation engine. But yeah, there is not much we can do beyond that.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So yeah, I-

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  I remember I was not even convinced that this proposal was technically sound, because it makes it the optimal strategy for managing Stake Pool is just to have a bunch of Stake Pools all creating a very small number of blocks, and you'll get more rewards doing this than creating one Stake Pool that creates many blocks, versus the opposite incentive that we want to have. So I was not convinced by whether or not this is actually even something that fits the requirements that we, as a protocol have.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So, I see the two opposite positions here between you Sebastien, that you might think that it's not sound enough, and you Matthias that wouldn't mind to merge it as proposed?

**Matthias Benkort**: Well, the thing is it's the same for all those proposals. It's hard to say or assess how serious they are before doing any extensive kind of stimulation of the holding theory around the proposal. So from a technical standpoint looking at it, I would say it sounds fair to me. But at the same time, I haven't run any read of the whole position or game really behind that. So I haven't pushed much the... Consequences of that proposal on different system. It is very hard to assess.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I have a question related on the process, as you suggested to merge it as proposed. But before going to active, I just wanted to make sure that I understood. Before to making active, that needs to be on a step before, which is an assessment from IOG, right?

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, an assessment from the research team, possibly using this new framework we have been developing for running this kind of simulation.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. Okay. So this is something that we would add as a comment or as a step before changing the path to active?

**Matthias Benkort**: Yes, I think both what you said.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. Now I wanted to know how you do that. I guess that is like... As you are in control to changing the proposals from proposed to active. So this would be like a kind of requirement before moving it to active. And this would be in a standby until we have this simulation.

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, indeed active, to active or rejected depending on the outcome of the results.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. [inaudible 00:32:04].

**Matthias Benkort**: If the simulation clearly shows that the proposal isn't sound, that it would make the situation worse, then we just don't want to make... Move it as active, but just as rejected.

### Last Check 

### Review 

#### PR242
 [PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. So, that were the items we had in triage. And now in review, we have PR242, which is CIP 50 regarding Shelleys Voltaire Decentralization Update. I think that we are going to do a weekly summary on this, if I am correct?

**Matthias Benkort**: Yes. So I actually spent the whole day looking at the proposal and going through the thread of comments. I try to provide a summary at the bottom. There has been many, many things been said, but it's mostly also a debate around whether or not the proposal improves the situations in terms of, does it benefit decentralization, and does it benefit actually every users of the ecosystem and not just the big players?

**Matthias Benkort**: So the discussion hasn't really settled on that. And again, this is the kind of proposal where we need more evidence or stronger arguments in favor or disfavor of the proposal, and something, hopefully this new simulator from the research team could help with. The research team is also aware of that proposal. I've had a discussion with Aggelos also on this one. He also mentioned that it was quite close to how incentives works on Tezos currently, upon which Cardano has improved.

**Matthias Benkort**: They had analyzed in the past, and that they had rejected or iterated upon in the current design that is used in Cardano. He pointed out a blog post he wrote two years ago on the topic, which goes over the different designs that you can use for incentive and rewards, and why this proposed design has issues and works actually worse than the current mechanism. Which is also one point being made during... By other people in this whole thread of comments, which is that it's also not clearly established that the current mechanism is worse than the proposal here. And that possibly with a different set of parameters, we could also alleviate some of the issues that are being brought out or motivating this proposal. So that's a bit from the summary of the discussions on that.

**Matthias Benkort**: I also think that there are many topics in discuss itself within this... In that proposal, and that perhaps it could be worse to split it in multiple smaller proposals. There is one which is the change of the reworked formula, which in itself is I think the main proposal. But then there are also other topics like the change or reduction of the value of K. There is a... This k-effective measure that is describing the effectiveness of the proposal. It has an interpretation that has also a definition that is being debated. So just for the sake of making the debate a bit more fluid or debate maybe in different rooms, if you want, I would be in favor of splitting this proposal into smaller ones.

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah. So that's a bit for the summary, which is also then posted on the CIP at the moment. And I will try to keep up with the discussions coming for... Next weeks.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  And for splitting the proposal, this is something that Michael should be doing?

**Matthias Benkort**: Ideally, yes. And that's also very much up to discussions, because maybe he doesn't have a time or willingness to do it. It could also be someone else, right? Everything is in the end open here. So if someone sees something that has value and it should be made today, proposal by itself. I made a few suggestions on the... On my comments, but there's maybe some odd few other things that are worth keeping out of the proposal, even though it is agreed with the rest of the proposal.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So you would suggest Matthias that we wait for some comments on your summary and suggestions, and see how the people react to this?

**Matthias Benkort**: This, yes. And regardless of my comments actually, there are still ongoing discussions that have not yet settled on the proposal. So there is no point, in a way, moving it forward in any form at this stage, because it's still actively discussed. So I think it's good if we have regular updates on that one also, just to keep up with the state of the discussion. And eventually, once the discussion has settled and maybe people have agreed on the final draft, then we can proceed the same as CIP 37 and CIP 46, which is having it as a proposed CIP, and move the task then in IOG, IOP help and just have them do something.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  To run the simulation, right, or to review it?

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, or provide an answer on the feasibility, viability of the proposal.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. So shall we leave... Save some spot... Some space in next meeting for review this or shall we do biweekly check-ins on this one or do you prefer to do monthly check-ins?

**Matthias Benkort**: For this particular CIP?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Mh-hmm. Yes.

**Matthias Benkort**: I think having it done on the next biweekly at least, and then we re-asses on every biweekly, depending on the activity?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. Fair enough, because there's a lot of activity on this one. And maybe if we wait for a month, it's going to be too much to keep up. So let's go to the last item we had on the agenda, which is CIP 242, Cardano best practice guidelines. If I recall correctly--

##### Discord discussion on the PR

**KtorZ — 24/05/2022**:
[Pool Splitting Behaviour and Equilibrium Properties in Cardano’s Re])https://blogs.ed.ac.uk/blockchain/2022/04/19/pool-splitting-behaviour-and-equilibrium-properties-in-cardano-rewards-scheme=

**kieransimkin — 24/05/2022**:
is this related to or superceded by CIP-0050? (not my expertise here)

**KtorZ — 24/05/2022**:
related to

**kieransimkin — 24/05/2022**:
you have to know you're agreeing to a license for it to be valid, if it's embedded into a smart contract that you're signing when you interact with it, that's not legally enforceable afaik
but the metadata couold still be provided for information purpsoes

**ccgarant — 24/05/2022**:
Here for help with CIP-50 @KtorZ thanks for review. Took notes. Will relay to Mike L. Working on ranking equation for stake pools. Should have new pull by end of week.


#### PR252
 [CIP-0052? | Cardano audit best practice guidelines](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/252)


**Sebastien Guillemot**:  [inaudible 00:39:38] we agreed to approve this one, right?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  My sense is that... You had this meeting here in Barcelona last week, and you were going to discuss this. I don't know if I am... Must correct my...

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yes, you're right.

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, which happened. It was presented during the workshop. It's been a bit discussed and... Yeah. So it actually created, or gave birth to another CIP that we are working on with a few other people, regarding the specification of an on-chain contract. But as for the audit guidelines, there is not much more to say. I think we were pretty much okay with that.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  So, we will be able to merge it?

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  [inaudible 00:40:37] as well, and if during the in-person meeting, nobody raised any issues, then given that there was a... If that was a room of experts as well, then I don't see a reason not to approve this CIP.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. So this is all what we had in the agenda.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  So the CIP comes with this TX spec. So this is what we're extracting as a separate CIP, right? We want to remove it from the CIP?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  From this one ore from...

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, so the CIP as part of it also has... I think maybe there's a merge issue actually when I look at it. Maybe they pushed stuff by accident, because there's the same file repeated twice. And then they added this--

**Matthias Benkort**: Yes.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  TX Pack.

**Matthias Benkort**: There's the CIP XXX which shouldn't be here, I think. And the TX spec one, it was originally in a Google Doc. And I actually asked Simon if we could put it on the report next to it. And this is precisely the TX spec stuff, what gave birth to another CIP currently under our discussion. So I think eventually, we will probably amend this CIP to just refer to the other one when it comes to the TX specification. And while I have no issue actually with the current CIP in terms of the guidelines, I don't find the TX spec very clear at the moment. So it's a bit of a side thing, but maybe it's just worth re-wording this. But the main state is okay, definitely.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, but it feels kind of strange, because these are two related, I guess, but separate things. And then we also have the same document. Okay. So probably we just need to go and pick up this PR and then [inaudible 00:42:52].

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah. And I would suggest maybe to move the discussion of the TX spec to the other CIP that we're working on. And simply have a link from that one to this ongoing discussion. It's not essential for the guidelines anyway.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Are you going to do this offline?

**Robert Phair**: Yeah, right.

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, yeah, we'll comment on the PR. Maria also, are you going to link to Robert? [inaudible 00:43:27] this trouble like I was, to join back this Discord or I was doing something wrong?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Looks like it sounds better now, right? Or no?

**Robert Phair**: Someone just did something. Someone just did something a few seconds ago, then it was... I've been clicking on my unmute button and I've been told... I've been suppressed ever since I reconnected. So I guess, whatever you did, fixed it. I've been trying like hell just to unsuppress myself and I couldn't. So thank you. Yeah, that's it.

**Robert Phair**: All the comments that I wanted to make so far are in the chat. So I don't see Maria that... Even in the chat rooms. So that's where I've commented, is just in the chat. I don't know if I can be inserted into the minutes somehow, but there were a couple of things, but... What would the process be for in...

**Robert Phair**: Just a comment, if there were relevant things in the chat to the discussion, are they ever inserted into the minutes or does it have to be spoken?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I had a little bit of trouble understanding.

**Matthias Benkort**: [inaudible 00:44:48] to the chat. So Robert was asking, what do we do with the chat basically, regarding the minutes meeting? I think we should just include them in some form or another, because there has been relevant stuff being said in the chat, and we don't bring everyone on vocal anyway. So, that's important.

**Robert Phair**: Okay. Well, you can edit what I've said, because a lot of it is, "Help, I'm being suppressed." So you can turn that down a little bit. I did make some comments about two of the other proposals, but that's enough. We can keep moving on. Are you still hearing any noise that you were noticing through the web app?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  It's still noisy and it's difficult to understand you, because it gets... I mean the words... Well, nevermind. It is difficult.

**Robert Phair**: [inaudible 00:45:42]? Okay.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  What I will do is check and see how we can include this, because I think that what you mentioned is really interesting. So I will check how to include the comments on the meeting notes.

##### Discord discussion on the PR

**kieransimkin — 24/05/2022**:
@KtorZ I've had a good read of CIP52 - nothing to add, looks really good

### Issues

### Discussions

#### PR256
 [PR256 CIP-0014, CIP-0015, CIP-0016, CIP-0025, CIP-0028, CIP-0029, CIP-1852, CIP-1853, CIP-1855 status updates.](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/256)

**Matthias Benkort**: So I would like maybe to go quickly over a small PR I did last week, 256, which just turns a few CIPs as active. I was going through the list other day and thought to do... There are a few ones that we could definitely turn as active, because there are obvious and observable proof of activeness. So, there are old CIPs that have been there for a while. It doesn't mean that we cannot have a change of the CIP. But yeah, things like CIP 1852, which is the derivation scheme used in every single wallet currently. Or CIP 14, CIP 15.

**Matthias Benkort**: There is a complete list with rationale as for why I think we should turn them into active. There was a few others that could be up to debate, which I didn't include. But I think generally speaking, we originally thought that the author would come and update their CIP as active as soon as they have reached a... Well, level of activity, or it turns out that I think we'll probably have to take upon that task, because... Yeah, outdoor is typically once they have proposal is active, they don't just come back at it. So it's just a variety of... The things.

**Matthias Benkort**: So, there is no section... okay, so it actually used approved. There is now a conflict.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, it makes sense. It makes sense. All these are very commonly used. So it's no [inaudible 00:48:43].

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, I think I will make another PR soon to just turn a few others as proposed, because that's something also we haven't been quite careful with in the past. Some CIPs have... I think they have been merged as still... Are still draft. Like CIP 30, it's been drafted for a while and it was sort of on purpose. But quite a few of them are actually not draft anymore; they have been just proposed and they are just not yet active.

**Matthias Benkort**: So yeah, but that will be for next meeting. Is there anything else maybe for today we could look at? Did we have any suggestion in the chat?



#### PR258
 [PR258 - Bootstrap first draft of the Plutus contract blueprint.](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/258)

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  And then, so the blueprints for Plutus one is still too early, right?

**Matthias Benkort**: We could start have a look at it, if only for people to also jump in the conversation. But yes, it's very, very early draft at the moment. Actually, I mean the specification has not been written. We have just written examples at the moment of what we think it would look like in the end.

**Matthias Benkort**: But yeah, we could have a quick look at that one, which people wants to jump on the conversation, at least to explain the motivation and the... What's behind. So happy to give a short introduction.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Which one Matthias?

**Matthias Benkort**: So yeah, I'm going to put it in the chat as well. So PR280... Sorry, 58. You can think of it as an open API/Swagger format for on-chain contract. So a way to specify a contract interface in a machine-readable format. And by contract interface, we mean... Data redeemers, and if applicable, for instance, the different transitions that can be operated on a contract, if it's evolving around the stake machine.

**Matthias Benkort**: And the goal is really to enable a whole sort of tools to be built upon that, including documentation, automated card generation, or simply wallet UI that can then show you the different progress of your contract. And can also better show you what's going on when you sign or view a transaction that involve a contract, because now they have actual content or ways to inspect data redeemers that are being bundled as part of a transaction, and they can then offer you better UI for interpreting this data.

**Matthias Benkort**: So this is a CIP that aim at just specifying the language you can use to write this contract specification. It's quite simple. It's just a YAML/JSON schema-based language, because it's quite good for that. There are a lot of tooling around it that exists already, and it's quite common for web and DApp developer... To use this kind of technology or this kind of... Yeah, people language. So it's still early draft, but I invite people that feel maybe concerned by that to comment and see.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah. So one of my concerns with this is how we plan to basically generate these from a hash code itself. It is a very good way to basically have people [inaudible 00:52:51] they're off-chain code generation as it generates its file permit, or is that nothing that is-

**Matthias Benkort**: That's the other way around. I think you actually want to write the spec first, and then generate hash code for responding to the spec. And this way, you can [inaudible 00:53:12]-

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  That would be ideal, yes.

**Matthias Benkort**: To do code generation of either the on-chain part, or also the off-chain, which is in the whole diagram. And that tooling is also yet to be built obviously. But it's a start for good foundation for them, all of that. You could also use it for verification, for instance. Right, so have for validation, once you have created and generated a transaction as part of your whole... That pipeline, you could use that tool as a schema validation on the data and you will be able actually to make sure that your contract is actually doing whatever is specified in this file. And yes, exactly yes, someone said in the chat so automated unit test, yeah. Validation is based on the spec. So it's very close to the article representation of the data obviously, because...

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Do you know what they did for the Plutus simulator? I forget the name of the project; it's been so long. But I remember they had a website where you could generate your code, you could give them your code and they would generate these bit machines and set some web-based UI. Do you know what they used for that? Yeah, Plutus Playground. How did they generate the UI from this... Our contract? Did they come up with a standard for this?

**Matthias Benkort**: No, that's a good question. I think it's solidly based on the hash code types. And behind the scene, I know it's built with pure script. So I would expect that they have some form of... Pure hash code to pure script generator to do a bunch of the heavy-lifting.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yes, they may have something that we can reuse either code wise or idea wise.

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah. And Michael has already commented on the proposals. He's aware that this is going on. He hasn't suggested anything in this direction though. But maybe you can ping him a bit more on this particular subject.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, because I imagine the people who work on Plutus Playground probably thought about this, and probably this is also something they thought about for Marlowe. Marlowe is maybe a bit trickier, because they have the separate TSL, which also generates code that's not this kind of JSON schema, but maybe it... Some similarity, I'm not sure-

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, what Simon tried to specify in this TX flow file from CIP 52.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Right, yes.

**Matthias Benkort**: Where I think the [inaudible 00:55:56] stems from Marlowe's and Marlowe's behavior. But it's really not obvious to me how exactly those things relate to the low level Plutus stuff in a way.

**Matthias Benkort**: Oh, it seemed very... Too high level to be actually useful for code generation, automated test code verification.

**Matthias Benkort**: So yeah, so far we are mostly focusing on the data redeemers kind of specification, but there is also maybe other information that are useful to add around that. Someone suggested, for instance, recently that we add also Plutus versions to the schema, because now we have... Well, soon we'll have two different Plutus versions. So it's nice to say your contract is this or that version. It's perhaps also a good way to actually have the compiled code of the contract and have it in some place so that you can refer to it later, which sometimes can be tricky because some contracts are parameterized at compilation time. So therefore, their code slightly changes depending on which parameter you choose. And it'll have a static address therefore. But there are maybe other components of... On-chain contracts that are interesting for that developer, which is exactly why the feedback is interesting here.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Right. So this CIP tackles the data redeemers. But we already have kind of a standard for representing these in JSON, that's implemented by both... Cardano CLI and the rest, SDK CML. So did we want to standardize this representation as a separate CIP and then build on top of that for the stake machine, or did you want to have the 12 B one, the CIPs?

**Matthias Benkort**: It's kind of different though, because here it's more like meta language, right? Or describing what the functions are and a JSON representation is not as capable as the on-chain representation. So there are stuff that you cannot represent in JSON that you can do on-chain. So they don't necessarily have to converge, I think, the presentations. Maybe the passive value if they do. But I see that as two separate things, actually. They don't really describe the same thing.

**Matthias Benkort**: It's a bit of like a type versus value kind of...

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah, okay.

**Matthias Benkort**: Thing, right?

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Yeah.

**Matthias Benkort**: Here, we are describing the type of [inaudible 00:58:45], whereas the JSON of the [inaudible 00:58:45] is really just materialization of that value.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  So in an ideal world, you could also generate this JSON through the schema that you're defining here?

**Matthias Benkort**: Yes. I see someone is typing in chat.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Okay. Yeah, I have no other questions about this CIP. I see it's not done yet, but so far it makes sense.

**Matthias Benkort**: Thanks for sharing.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  How much time do we have left? Three minutes, so I guess we probably don't have... So there's a few other issues open or PRs open, but I think maybe with three minutes, we don't have really the time to get into them.

**Matthias Benkort**: No.

##### Discord discussion on the PR

**kieransimkin — 24/05/2022**:
Super keen on this transaction spec @KtorZ - i also see it as a way for the plutus gurus to help simple C developer mortals like myself to understand how to actually interact with a smart contract 😉
automated unit tests could come from it too right?

**PGWAD — 24/05/2022**:
I am working on Coq proof assistant and this (Plutus contract blueprint) one will be very useful for that especially extraction part. I am writing an extended abstract and will update if i need anything more

### Close 

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Shall we do a quick wrap up on the session?

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah. Who wants to... Sebastien, you're up for it?

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  Just thank you everybody for coming. Hopefully you didn't think the technical issues were that bad. And this is our first attempt to do this over Discord. I think we had higher attendance than what we did when we got over Crowdcast. I think this is a good migration. We were originally unsure about doing Discord versus Twitter Space. We ended up picking Discord because you can screen-share on Discord, which is useful. And hopefully the screen-share functionality was useful for everybody.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  But one of the problems we have with CIP is we need to reach out to more people. So we need to go where people are instead of in an isolated platform. And so coming on Discord was part of that. And maybe in the future, we can try out broadcasting this to Twitter Space at the same, or some other kind of scheme to reach out to more people. But if you have any feedback for how we can improve these meetings in the future to make them more engaging, let us know.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  I did notice that nobody else spoke during this session, other than in the chat. Let us know if that was good enough for you. I think Discord has a way for people to raise their hands or request to speak. So we could try and come up with a system like that. In my experience, it slows down the meetings quite a lot. But obviously, depending on the CIP, if we have the CIP author come up, it can be important. So obviously, one of those balance things we have to try to find the right balance.

**Sebastien Guillemot**:  So if you have any feedback about our first experience, just let us know what you think, and hopefully you'll be around for other CIP meetings in the future.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Well, next CIP meeting is going to be in two weeks. It's going to be at 8:30 AM UTC, and it's going to be on Tuesday. Let me check... The actual number. Tuesday, June the 7th, 8:30 AM UTC.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Thank you very much all for attending today. And well, have a nice evening or day. Bye-bye.

**Matthias Benkort**: [foreign language 01:02:20], bye.


---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
