**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [June 28 2022 Transcript](#june-28-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [PR 271- CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses](#pr271)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](#pr263)
    + [PR267 CIP-0025: Added version 2 and cddl](#pr267)     
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](#pr226)
    + [CIP-0381? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](#pr220)     
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](#pr242)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 28/06/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significance to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## June 28 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Sebastien Guillemot, Frederic Johnson, Robert Phair. 
**Guests**: Morgan Thomas, Michael Liesenfelt

### Triage

#### PR271
[PR271 CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/271)

**Matthias** -: CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses
  And that current CIP is already active. It's been used by a few marketplaces. So it doesn't quite make sense to modify it as much. As for the proposal itself, I made already some remark last week. I think the author came back saying: "Yes, true. But that would make for a worse UX. And therefore I would prefer the approach". They have a good rationale in the proposal, which is fair enough, but I still maintain that it should be made as a separate proposal, as an extension of the existing one rather than modifying what exists and has been used in a while.

**M. Àngels** -:  So I see you maintain a conversation. So from my understanding, Nicolas will need to make a separate, right?

**Matthias** -: Yes, indeed.

**M. Àngels** -:  So shall we add that we are waiting for the author?

**Matthias** -: I think that's pretty much the case now because the proposal by itself...

**Robert** -: [Issues with the audio: Robert cannot hear Matthias] I don't think based on what Matthias was saying before, which he'd probably be staying now, if he could. It sounds like that can only really go ahead as a separate CIP because of the existing implementations that it would be incompatible with.

**M. Àngels** -:  And apologies on my lack of knowledge on this. So in this case, what 
is the next step.

**Robert** -: As far as I know, we would say that this is waiting for author. And then 
if that is the agreement, then we would deprecate this one in favor of the new PR once the author submits it.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Matthias** -: I think it can also be the same PR right, it can just modify it.

**Robert** -: I can add that label now waiting for author, if that's okay with everybody else.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, good.

**M. Àngels** -:  I was doing it already, so don't worry about this.

**Matthias** -: So the content itself, I mean, I already admitted my remark last week and I agree with the author. I think I've just asked him to put that as a rational because I would avoid having this discussion again. Should be fine, but just as a separate content.

**M. Àngels** -:  Perfect.

**Matthias** -: It is too different.

### Last Check 

#### PR263
[PR263 CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/263)

Okay. So we move to the items on last check. So we have PR 263, CIP 54, Cardano smart NFTs.

**Matthias** -: Yes. So this one was on last check, I think because it was substantially discussed on the forum. And this is like the results of quite a few weeks of discussions. Had another go at it today, actually. So made a few small remarks. It's mainly on the editorial aspect. So just titles and sections to stick a bit more to the template.

**Robert** -: [Issues with the audio; Robert still cannot hear Matthias] I was hoping again, that Matthias was going to be jumping in with his eloquent voice because he's already said everything. He's made some substantial comments on this issue so far. And I think what he wrote today on GitHub is self explanatory for the things that the author would have to respond to still. I guess this could remain in last check until we have responses about all of those. So I would suggest postponing this until the next meeting.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Robert** -: Remaining in last check until we have responses from the author.

**M. Àngels** -:  In this case, I'm going to add also the label waiting for the author.

**Robert** -: Yeah.

#### PR267
 [PR267 CIP-0025: Added version 2 and cddl](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/267)

**M. Àngels** -: And let's keep this one for the next meeting. Perfect. Next item on the agenda is CIP 267, CIP 25, added version two and CDDL. Has two approvals, this one. What is missing from this one? Or it's ready to be merged?

**Robert** -: It could be merged right now, it seems.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. So I understand that Matthias cannot approve because it's on Windows. So I don't know if you Robert and Fred could merge or either of you do it online.

**Robert** -: It's done.

**M. Àngels** -:  Perfect.

**Robert** -: I just wanted to give it a last call in case any last objections, but it's been approved all around.

**Matthias** -: And I think the last objection was already the last meeting. As we said, it was approved, but we left it open for comment. There hasn't been any comment, so it's good to go.

### Review 

#### PR226
 [PR226 CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/226)

**M. Àngels** -:  Then we go to the items under the review section, you have PR226, additional factors for NFT market verification. According to my notes, we were expecting this week to have some advance on this. I don't know who are we talking about two weeks ago about an example, but maybe I am confused with another PR?

**Robert** -: It's the author, Eric Nichols here in any form today? I guess he would be coming forward if so. From the last comments that Sebastian made, I think there needs to be a little bit filled out in the text of this CIP so maybe if there's no one ready to discuss it, I would suggest that we note in the GitHub that we'd like to discuss this with the author at the next meeting, if we can. And to note internally that we're waiting for comments about the last review.

**M. Àngels** -:  I have asked for this PR and also PR 263, Cardano smart NFTs to the developers' newsletter and see if we can get feedback from developers if they would be interested. Because as far as I remember, I think that it was some concern... We wanted to get input from marketplaces and see if it actually was solving an actual problem from their side.

**Matthias** -: We could maybe try to reach out to the marketplaces directly actually. I mean, there are not so many on Cardano yet, so I think it's still going [crosstalk 00:08:03].

**Robert** -: I'm just going to note on GitHub that from the CIP meeting today, waiting for developer feedback from NFT marketplace.

**Matthias** -: Yeah.

**M. Àngels** -:  I am going to organize and see.

**Matthias** -: If you can ping a few people.

**M. Àngels** -:  I know that we have some telegram channels with marketplaces so we can reach to them.

**Robert** -: So you pitched via private channels?

**Matthias** -: No. Via GitHub I think. That should be enough or perhaps on Discord, I don't know.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. We can discuss about how to approach them after the call, if you like to. And next one,

#### PR220
 [PR220 CIP-0381? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/220) 

**Robert** -: This is beyond me technically as well. I can see that there's a good discussion about it, but it's above my level.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I think we have Las here.

**Robert** -: All I can tell that there is...

**Matthias** -: We could ask him [crosstalk 00:09:32] summary.

**Robert** -: God, I can't even use my mouse button to get through the amount of discussion on this.

**M. Àngels** -:  Hi, Las, do you want to give us a brief summary regarding this PR. I am not able to hear you.

**Matthias** -: Me neither. I'm not sure if Las is speaking. He has un-muted himself too.

**M. Àngels** -:  No, it was me that I am unmuted him.

**Matthias** -: Ah, okay. And he's gone.

**M. Àngels** -:  I think that it has to do with... There's some worse things with Discord and the audio. I need to unmute. Let's try again. Now.

**Las** -:  I muted myself out of the system.

**M. Àngels** -:  Now, we can hear you perfectly. So would you like to make a summary on this PR?

**Las** -:  The data hash one?

**Matthias** -: Nope. Not this one. The pairing over curve, BLS12-381. I think you've been putting many discussions on that one.

**Las** -:  Yes. I have. I was doing something else. Okay. It looks stable to me. I don't think there are many remaining questions. I think there was one remaining question that Michael answered with regards to what to do about the missing operations. I don't actually remember what he answered. Let me see. I think I have the answer right here. I think it might be okay as is. I don't think that's implementation or anything.

**Matthias** -: The implementation is up to the Plutu's team, I guess, at the end or is it something that will be back-ported into Plutus from some other places maybe.

**Las** -:  I think the audio GZKP team or something, I don't remember what they called will work on it.

**Matthias** -: Okay.

**Las** -:  I'm not sure of the exact situation though.

**Matthias** -: Okay. I see Michael was also part of the conversation. So I will assume Plutu's team is aware of what's coming.

**Las** -:  Yeah, they're aware.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So I think we can just reach out to Iñigo then maybe to see last message he posted was I've included your suggestions. I'm not totally convinced about this sub operation count. I removed that. Okay. So I think the author, Inigo is happy to go forward with that. And I did a few cosmetic remarks last time just to make it fit also with the templates. I would just love maybe to have confirmation from the Plutu's team before we merge that. But beyond this, it should be okay.

**Las** -:  Actually, now that I think about it, there might be one thing that we might have to change. I just thought about this, but we have both serialization and de-sterilization and I think it was actually me who recommended that we have both. Now, that I think about that may not actually be a good solution because the exclusion is deterministic. You just need one of them. I don't think you need de-serielization actually, do you? You can't have it if you wanted to have it in data, you need de-serielization. I was thinking because with data, we don't have any de-serielization data function because you can just pass in data natively and they're same with other things. In this case though, we can, so we need de-serielization. I actually think it's fine as is. There is a missing operation, the pairing one, but other than that, it looks fine actually.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Thank you.

**M. Àngels** -:  So how would you like to proceed?

**Matthias** -: I think we can move into last check from the next call and in between reach out to both Inigo and Michael to also have their confirmation on that. And then that will be merged as proposed, I believe until it's actually implemented and verified in the Plutu's primitives.

**Las** -:  By the way, it seems that Morgan Thomas wants to speak.

**M. Àngels** -:  Let's bring him on stage. Hello, Morgan. Looks like we are having a lot of issues with the audio today.
New Speaker:  [Audio issues]

**Matthias** -: Okay. Could you detail a bit on that and would it be, you think, crucial for the CIP or would you see that more as an extension to it? Okay. So it's more like do it now because it might be useful later, but there's actually no current use-cases that requires it because I see the CIP considers side chains. The all knowledge [inaudible 00:16:14] basically.

**M. Àngels** -:  I only listen to you Matthias, are you speaking by comments or by chat or it's me that I am not able to hear Morgan.

**Matthias** -: No, Morgan is speaking actually. So I think you are not able to hear him.

**M. Àngels** -:  Wow, weird.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So is this something we've already discussed actually with Inigo or Michael? Because if not, maybe just bring that on the Pull Request comments and we can see how to proceed. Because that seems to me it's quite speculative at this stage that this might be useful later, which doesn't preclude including it depending on how much overhead also it adds on the implementation itself. I have absolutely no idea of what that entail on the implementation, but you probably have a better idea than me. Why Morgan is muted again?

**M. Àngels** -:  I haven't been able to hear a word.
New Speaker:  [Audio Issues]

**Matthias** -: He is speaking. Okay. And what about the making those proposal for another already curve support.
New Speaker:  [Audio issues]

**Morgan** -: We're not going to use elliptic curves for Orbis V1 because the support is not there. And so whereas I don't have a specific use-case for elliptic curves on Cardano right now that's because the support is not currently there. If the support was already there, then there's a high chance we would be using them.

**Matthias** -: Okay. It's a bit of chicken and egg situation, but I would definitely encourage you to propose that as a CIP. I Think the Plutu's team is fairly reactive on those proposals. So if you need that or not need, but if you would want that for part of Orbis, just go ahead and make a proposal with the Plutu's team, there is a good chance that this can actually be reacted upon and end up being useful for you.

**Morgan** -: Okay. Thanks.

**M. Àngels** -:  Matthias, would you be able to do a summary for the recording?

**Matthias** -: Back to this one actually, that means we can, I think, move it to last check for the next one.

**M. Àngels** -:  Matthias, would you please be able to do a summary of the conversation between you and Morgan because I don't know why I wasn't able to hear it and I am concerned that it's not recorded.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So Morgan is suggesting, or was suggesting to possibly add a support for a new operation that is currently not mentioned in the CIP, which might turn useful if it is there. Although there is not yet any use-case backing it, but it's also because the operation is not there that people does not feel necessarily the urge to use it. And you would like to avoid heading through a entire CIP process later on when it becomes actually needed. But he was also discussing actually having a different supported inputs of different curves, to have a more wider set to pick from for a wider set of applications, which would be in a completely different CIP in that case. And I just encourage them to do that and propose this in addition to Plutu's because this is something they wouldn't explicitly need for Orbis, at least in the first version, but that would be possibly useful later on. So if they have it, that's even better. And I think that team would be fairly welcoming that sort of request.

**Matthias** -: So back to this one, I don't think Morgan wants to add that particular operation in the end if I got you correctly because mostly for the hassle that it would create on discussing and justifying adding it. If you do, then please comment on the Pull Request. We still have quite a long time because it'll be in a proposed state for a while and until it gets implemented. So there is also rooms for modifications once in proposed. But at least we'll move it to last check for the next meeting so we can get it merged and have it as proposed in the repository.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. Perfect.

**Robert** -: Maria, one thing I noticed when I couldn't hear a handful of people's voices and I'm sorry if I talked over anyone without realizing it. Hitting Ctrl+R I think will refresh the audio part of Discord and that fixed everything for me.

**M. Àngels** -:  Yeah. I open a new window and it fixed it. I realized that you were talking and it was like you couldn't hear Matthias.

**Robert** -: I could not. I'm very sorry about that. It must have sounded ridiculous. And I hope it doesn't look that way in the minutes, but that's it. Ctrl+R will redraw the window. Sorry, everybody. Okay. But hopefully, that solution will help other people.

**M. Àngels** -:  Yeah. Because it feels really strange because you can hear one person perfectly, but the other one is completely mute. So if this happens to any of you just open a new window and it will be sorted.

**Matthias** -: And don't hesitate to use the chat also for that. So next one is CIP 50, I think.

#### PR242
 [PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**Matthias** -: Which always gives me nice afternoons.

**Robert** -: Do we have Michael today?

**Matthias** -: I think I saw him earlier.

**Robert** -: He's joined, but he's still muted. Michael, if you're here, maybe he could unmute yourself.

**M. Àngels** -:  I think I need to do it myself or any of you. The editors can do it too.

**Matthias** -: Doesn't have it.

**Robert** -: There he is.

**Michael** -:  Audio check.

**Matthias** -: Yes.

**Robert** -: Here are you?

**Matthias** -: Audio check. Received.

**M. Àngels** -:  I think that I need to reset the screen sharing. Just give me a sec. Can you see my screen again?

**Matthias** -: Let me check actually.

**Robert** -: All I see are the cat heads.

**Matthias** -: I see your screen, yes.

**M. Àngels** -:  Perfect. Thank you very much, Fred, for the heads up.

**Matthias** -: So CIP 50, I've tried to summarize the conversation that happened over Discord last week. And I try to structure a bit the summary so that it could be readable in a way. Generally speaking, I think we want to avoid having those conversation on Discord. As we said, when we set up the Discord, it was really not meant to discuss the proposals, but just to organize around the meetings. So the discussion would be better to have on more public and more persistent forums. Although I get also that's GitHub discussions and GitHub issues just that it tends to become quite long and how to follow as well.

**Matthias** -: So I don't know, we can perhaps create a dedicated channel on the CIP server just to avoid people floating the general, and we can keep the general for normal conversations or organizing around the events more than discussing CIPS per se. So I'm not sure how people feel about that. We haven't really planned for this, but I think there is room for having a fast-paced kind of conversation channel for the CIP, which could be just on the server, but not on general.

**M. Àngels** -:  As long as then we are mindful and transfer the important things to GitHub. And I think that is something that each one of us needs to be mindful of. Because if not, it's a lot of overhead for either you the editors or a single person.

**Matthias** -: It is.

**Robert** -: I think it's a great step forward to have a topic-specific channels on Discord. The problem usually is that everyone wants to present their own opinions as if they're consensus. But if you give people a little bit of time to vent their opinions in the more public forum, usually, the consensus emerges on its own. And then one of the participants can copy it back to GitHub at that point, like Matthias just did this morning.

**M. Àngels** -:  I just would like to make sure that it's not always Matthias or any of you that needs to be doing this extra work.

**Matthias** -: And it's also my own perspective what I got from the discussion. So it's obviously, skewed to both my understanding and my own biases. [crosstalk 00:29:09].

**Robert** -: It can go the other way. Also, on the other way, I had been having a review of that thread privately with other correspondence and the author. And I actually should have been more public about posting my conclusions or my summaries, I suppose of the existing discussion back to GitHub. So when we do see common threads emerging, we should be willing to post them. And I think that would clear a lot of it up too.

**Matthias** -: So what I see from the discussion and from the past discussion we had also, and I think I mentioned it already last time that there are multiple things being discussed as part of the CIP and it would be nice to maybe organize the conversation in multiple CIPs or multiple different forms of discussions. Like for instance, the protocol parameters, their value, and possibly changing K and things like that. That's orthogonal to the CIP and to just be discussed on the side.

**Matthias** -: And more importantly, it seems that there is a clear divisions between the people who thinks that the CIP does not improve the current situation and the people that thinks it does. And at this stage, it seems to be both opinions and arguments would maybe lack of methodology or at least, an agreed upon methodology that people can use to judge whether or not this solution is better than the current one. The current solution, it has the advantage of being there. So being visibly effective or not in the while, but at least we can say, well, that current approach, we reach this minimum vector. We have reached this amount of stake pools. So it's visible.

**Matthias** -: The new approach, it's very hard to say from just reading the proposal, what will be consequences. So there is really this need of a framework or clear methodology to both evaluate the solutions and according to some metrics and some outcomes that we try to maximize and say, this solution is objectively better than this one because this and this and that. And I think this is clearly missing on that proposal, which is why we have such a clear divisions between those who think it's not good. And those who think it's good, basically.

**Michael** -:  I agree with that. As the author, I've incorporated the updates and revisions to adopting that rigor and methodology to the path to active. As Cardano transitions to an open source project, we're going to have to be very good about reaching consensuses in a non-hierarchy away. And that includes all of the input and research of the IOG team. So if they're not participating yet, consensus is not reached yet, but they have responsibilities and obligations to deliver Vasil and so that comes first. But then after that, there should reasonably be a deadline on sharing prior research or turning it over to the community if IOG can't lead that research anymore.

**Matthias** -: I tend to agree with the sentiment. It's a bit odd at this stage that the main party needed for that conversation is actually not taking part into the conversation, which make it very hard to move forward. Though there has been someone, "mkt" on Discord, actually also here mentioning is from IOG, but also would be nice to have a clear point of contact. I do agree. So far it has been Kevin, but Kevin is also busy with Vasil and other stuff at this stage. So we are a bit missing this point of contact with the IOG research team in particular.

**Michael** -:  There's no rush. It's more important to get it right. And not make, in my opinion, another peer review mistake.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. So this is also why I've started to really poke our own researchers now at the Cardano Foundation, which is building also expertise on this, who agree on maybe trying to define an approach for evaluating the proposals and the solutions. So I've shared that as a last comment today, and I know that Reza also wants to join eventually the discussions. It was just not available today, but that would be also a step forward I think.

**M. Àngels** -:  Next meeting is going to be next week, but it won't match Reza's schedule.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Reza is in Canada so it's also in this time zone.

**M. Àngels** -:  So shall we put this on hold until Reza can jump into the meeting in three weeks?

**Matthias** -: We can definitely continue the conversations on the side as it has been happening, but not on Discord channel, if possible. And get it back on, I guess, the CIP meeting, again in the US based time zone.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Matthias** -: We can also have a quick catch-up on it next week just to see where we're at again.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. And the thing that I would like to clarify because it is not clear to me is if we are going to do on specific channel on Discord or for the moment, it's still better to try to use GitHub as a more public reflected and official channel.

**Matthias** -: I would prefer GitHub. If people strongly want a Discord channel for discussing this one, I think we can also go for that.

**Robert** -: I think the only way we're going to see the improvement is if we create the Discord channel, I can't think of a better test case we will get for a topic specific discussions than this CIP we have right now. And at this panel, within a month or two, we could have similarly contended proposals. And we don't want anyone to have to do the work that Matthias just did in order to digest four weeks of discussions. So we can in the hopes of getting through it all on a single meeting.

**Robert** -: So can we try to separate them and see if it works? See if we can rely upon the people to keep bringing it back into GitHub once some consensus or important points are made on Discord. And then if it seems like the balance is coming out wrong, if it seems like things are only being recorded in Discord, but not being taken back to GitHub, then we can maybe look at how that how we could make that process work. I just [crosstalk 00:36:49].

**M. Àngels** -:  Can you explain it again, at least from my end, there was a little bit of background noise and I couldn't understand. I mean, I think that you were suggesting to keep the discussion on Discord, but make everyone owner of trespassing their comments.

**Robert** -: I mean, a lot of the "discord" on Discord. A lot of the discussion on Discord was repetitive and we don't want that happening on GitHub. A lot of the repetitive discussion on Discord was opinionated. And we need a chance for the opinions to play out before they're recorded as actual point of view to be recorded in GitHub. So without having a forum for people to get through the preliminaries, we end up either recording too much on GitHub, which is the opinions and the bickering, or we end up recording too little because people forget to bring back the main point from the social networking channel to the developer's record on GitHub.

**Robert** -: So I would say that we first try to create that channel to see how it works. And then we adjust the balance in both of those conversations to be sure that the less relevant stuff is confined to Discord and the most relevant stuff is recorded on GitHub. It will take practice, but I'm sure it can work. I do feel pretty strongly about that. And I'm willing to monitor it as well as do some of the digesting that Matthias just did, which I had intended also to do on my own at some point.

**M. Àngels** -:  And can I suggest to ask each participant in this casual conversation, one, not an opinion, but a more reflected position on this to ask to add it to GitHub themselves and not do the summary, the editors.

**Matthias** -: I think this can work if we discuss precise question on a Discord and then our goals, if we have precise goals, and then we bring back the results, the outcome of that discussion on the GitHub. For instance, one thing I would like to see people agree on is what would it means to be decentralized for Cardano, for this whole thing here. If people can agree on a definition of what decentralization is and would entail with something that is quantifiable and have that discussions because from the past discussion, it's not yet agreed between participant what it means.

**Matthias** -: But once this is agreed that at least gives one criteria upon which we can start judging the CIP and the existing solution. And that will be one question. Then we move on to a different question or a different goal. And we try to structure the conversation on Discord around those goals. Anything that deviate from those goals, well, it should be self-disciplined: don't do it basically. So try to keep an eye on each other, but just say: "no, this is not the topic. The current topic and discussion we try to solve is this particular thing". So we break that big problem into smaller chunks and organize just discussions on one particular action on Discord up until we have done or tackle all of them.

**M. Àngels** -:  We can give you a try. I mean, it's going to be a trial and error and we will need, as Robert said to learn from it. So let's give it a try if you agree.

**Robert** -: Yes, it will be easier to do by setting up the discussion on that channel because the next time a contended issue comes along, it's going to blur the discussion. People may drop out or pay less focused attention. The framing questions that we might want to ask may get forgotten or push back farther in the discussions. I think that the only reason we've been able to focus on this particular issue is there aren't currently any ones like it that have attracted the same attention from the community. So we should move it off to a separate thread while we can do so easily before it gets mixed with other topics. So I would vote for creating that channel. Yes.

**M. Àngels** -:  Yeah. Are the rest of editors agreeing to create a specific channel?

**Matthias** -: Yeah. So long as it can be a bit structured. Yes. Give it to try and see.

**M. Àngels** -:  Fred. I don't know if Sebastian is here too.

**Fred** -: Yeah. All good here.

**M. Àngels** -:  Thank you very much. And I don't know if Sebastian... I will ask him later. So what I will do is if you agree is instead of creating a new channel as almost all the conversation in the general channel is around this CIP. I am just going to rename the channel and create another general one. So we have all the conversation or I can copy/paste it, whatever you prefer.

**Robert** -: I didn't think of that, but I think that's a good idea because about 95% of the comments in that general channel are CIP-specific, and then new general comments can go into a new general channel. We don't want have a CIP 50 discussion without most of the comments that have been made already so that would actually catch them all up. I think that's a good idea.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Matthias** -: Fair points.

**M. Àngels** -:  Perfect. I think that this was all that was on the agenda for today because on our discussion there's specific topic around creating a specific channel for the CIP. I don't know if there's anything else that you like to discuss.

**Robert** -: Just to be sure we don't miss this last point that Nick had made about the default channel. When people arrive in the Discord, whoever does the moving and renaming, we'll have to take a look at that of just looking at the last comment in the meeting room chat. So we have to look at that after moving the thing to be sure they're not dropped in this CIP 50 channel by default.

**M. Àngels** -:  So can you repeat, Rob because I thought I was understanding you and I got confused by the end.

**Robert** -: Okay. Do you see the last comment that's made in the meeting, the CIP editors meeting room chat?

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. Yes. This over here. So this is around CIP 50, right?

**Robert** -: Yes.

**M. Àngels** -:  So I'll make sure to copy/paste and add this to the main conversation around CIP 50.

**Robert** -: Yes. And if you're the one who creates the channel, just be sure that when new subscribers follow an invite link, they are not put-

**M. Àngels** -:  In the CIP 50, but in the general one.

**Robert** -: ... In the renamed channel, but in the new general channel, not the old general channel.

**M. Àngels** -:  Sure. That's a very good point. Okay. So I suggest to do a wrap-up as we have only seven minutes left. So Matthias, would you like to do the wrap-up of the session?

**Matthias** -: Yeah, let's go back. So am pulling out the Pull Request. So we looked at the royalty, the CIP about extending the royalty for NFT, to support multiple addresses, and we've asked the author to actually move that one as a separate CIP because it is essentially changing already established and active CIP. So a few comments, but those were addressed by the author. So they will be put as a rationale for the CIP.

**Matthias** -: We looked into the Cardano smart NFTs on which there was also more recent comments. So we'll also have this one as last check next meeting, which is next week just to see if the author has addressed them or not. Overall, I mean, we do agree with merging the CIP as proposed, but there was a few comments first to address.

**Matthias** -: CIP 25, it was already in last check in the previous call. There was so many comments done on it. And a few minor cosmetic changes we recorded last time were addressed. So we can merge that one actually. If someone can do, I think it has also didn't write number of approvals already.

**M. Àngels** -:  It was merged online by Robert.

**Matthias** -: Thanks, Robert, didn't notice that. Then review CIP 44, additional merger for NFT market verification. All the ID looks good. The CIP is okay, but we want to have buy in from the NFT marketplaces. So as action item for the editors, we're going to share that with the prominent marketplaces on Cardano and see if that's addressing something they are also facing.

**Matthias** -: CIP 381, a lot of discussion has been going on that one. And so last confirmed, it has reached a relative consensus so far. There was a discussion whether or not it should add an extra primitive, but I think, Morgan took it back. If not, please comment on the Pull Request. We also want to have confirmation from the Plutu's team that this is in the state where it can be acted upon and move from proposed to eventually being active. So we can have it as last check for the next meeting. And if nothing is said, we'll just merge it as a proposed CIP.

**Matthias** -: And finally CIP 50, so we had big discussion on Discord, which we're going a bit disorganized. So we are going to set up a proper channel for discussing that one, try to be diligent also in bringing back updates. Points that are being agreed on during that channel back to GitHub so that we can also have a review on GitHub, and give like a public track record on what's happening for the CIP. Overall, we also need more investment from IO on that CIP, more engagement from IO research. So we'll wait after the Vasil Hard Fork has happened. And after that definitely, put a bit more pressure. Let's put it nicely on IO to participate on that conversation. Otherwise, figure out how we can actually move that kind of conversation forward as Cardano becomes more and more open source indeed. So let's have dedicated channel for that one and see where the conversation goes for next week or the next meeting. And that's about it, I think.

**M. Àngels** -:  Thank you very much all for attending to the session today. Next meeting is going to be held next week as we skip a week last week. So July the 5th at 8:30 AM UTC, I have added the next two meetings as events on Discord so you can plan in advance. The only thing is that the agenda will be added a week before each meeting. Thank you very much again. And I would like to ask to the editors if they can join me in the green room for two minutes, it's for the problem with one link that I would like to solve. So thank you very much and see you next week.


---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
