**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [March 15 2022 Transcript](#march-15-2022-transcript )
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [PR160 - PR160 - CIP-32: Inline datums](#pr160)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [PR148 - CIP-0030: update to api.signData() ](#pr148)    
  * [Review](#review)
    + [PR200 - Add support for Catalyst multi-delegation](#pr200)  
    + [PR208- [CIP-0030] Adding getCollateral function to the connector API](#pr208)
    + [PR209 - [CIP-0030] Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable](#pr209) 
    + [PR215 - CIP-35: Plutus Core Evolution](#pr215)    
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
    + [PR218 - CIP-42? | New plutus builtin: serialiseBuiltinData](#pr218)
    + [PR222 - CIP-42? | New Plutus Core built-in dataHash](#pr222)
    + [PR220 - CIP-43? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](#pr220)
    + [CIP-45? | Decentralization: Using Pledge as a Bidding Param](#pr229) 
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 15/03/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly), [recorded](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/cip-editors-meeting-40) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.  


## March 15 2022 Transcript 
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, ~Duncan Coutts~, ~Sebastien Guillemot~, Frederic Johnson, Robert Phair. 

### Triage 

#### PR211
 [PR211 - Add reference implementation for CIP15](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/211)

**M. Àngels** - Hello. Welcome everyone to the CIP Editors meeting number 41. This is the first one that we are holding in the United State time zones. The idea is to hold those meetings bi-weekly, and we will do one in United States time zone, which is today. And in two weeks we are going to do it in European time, and we are going to alternate those meetings since now on. And well, my name is M. Àngels Jover and I work as project manager at the Cardano Foundation, and I am here to facilitate this meeting. At the top left, you can find the agenda for the meeting today, which I will share with you now. And today I have the pleasure to introduce you to our editors, which is Matthias Benkort, **Robert Phair** - and Frederic Johnson. Well, first of all, I would like to check with you editors, if there is any long lasting item that needs to be follow up and it's not on the agenda.

**Robert Phair** - Checking now. Okay. You said the agenda is in the upper left?

The "I" button. I see. Yeah, there's an "I" by the main title. I just had a question, if there's a process for dealing with issues that get submitted against the CIP repository? Because I've never really known how to jump in with those.

**Matthias** - Yeah, so. That's something we mentioned in the last meeting actually.


**Robert Phair** - Right.

**Matthias** - I was just noticing also that there are, quite many issues being created by people. So as for your question, no. We don't have any process with dues, so to speak. So, I think we should start including them on the CIP editors review maybe, or just, yeah. Start going through them asynchronously and try to resolve them.

**Robert Phair** - Yeah.

**Matthias** - So, some issues can be resolved pretty fast, right? Because they are about the updates on existing CIP or minor adjustments, and some are actually discussions. Proper discussions of people at thoughts, or seems to want to push up the CIP, but they not know necessarily in all the details yet so they stop with an issue, which I think is also fine. Some people do that on the forum as well. Not sure if we should favor one or the other way. But, let's maybe just start going through those we can address immediately and keep the other one for the CIP Editors Meetings.

**Robert Phair** - Sure.

**Robert Phair** - And I know that Kevin also posted a suggestion that they not use the next CIP number. I noticed a couple of them actually came in with the CIP as a flat file, rather than in a sub directory. So there were other types of naming conventions, not just for the files, but for the directories themselves. So, I was thinking that maybe a paragraph about that format could be added to the CIP one, or maybe the read me of the CIP repo itself. Just to tell people to put in a directory, to tell people to satisfy the naming convention of the CIP number in whatever way that we agree upon, but maybe another could be added to settle on those questions.

**Matthias** - Yeah. I think we could even do with a small continuous integration check with that. If you submit a full request, it's got checked by editor scripts that make sure you've got the right format, but yeah. Adding it to the CIP one, definitely. We have also  CIP templates, which may be up to date, because it's also at the root of the repository. So, maybe having an example folder, which shows how CIP should be structured.

**Robert Phair** - Okay.

**Matthias** - I did some addition to the read me also last time. I got to discuss that a bit with Sebastian, but we didn't come up with an agreement so far. But this, I think should be more on the safety one, right. It really about a process itself and the CIP. 

**Robert Phair** - Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Matthias** - Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Robert Phair** - Sometimes the CIP drafts come in on the Cardinal forum first. So, it would be nice to be able to link to the section of that document, and just post it in the forum, so that people can go over the material, and edit it before they submit it as a PR.

**Matthias** - Yeah. Yeah. So we can get a section easily if we just put a title. Then with the link we can refer to.

**Robert Phair** - That would be perfect, yeah.

**Matthias** - So also a quick reminder for anyone in the chat. If you have specific questions, also you want to ask, there is this ask question feature on chrome cast. Don't hesitate to use that. So, at the end or somewhere during the meeting, we can go over the questions that were asked. But, it's sometimes hard to see all the questions in the chats. So, exactly. Okay. 

### Last Check  

#### PR160
 [PR160 - PR160 - CIP-32: Inline datums](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/160)

**Matthias** - Should we start with the first item on the agenda CIP 32, tentatively? I think it is... It was just a last check, right? This one. Because we did review it last time and it was just making sure that there was no final questions on this one. It's also on... Yeah, Implementation I think has started, and has been planned for that one. So we should be able to move it to the other stages later on. But as a draft, it's also fine. Been discussed, reviewed, been through a few changes already. We're good to go. Yeah. Robert also commented already weeks ago, so they just merge it.

#### PR148
 [PR148 - CIP-0030: update to api.signData() ](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/148)

**M. Àngels** - Nice. So, in last set we have PR 148, an update to API signdata().

**Matthias** - Yeah. So what's the latest status on that one? I did ask for Robert to update...

**Frederic** - I think at the bottom of this one, there was a request to... never mind I'm actually looking into the 200 and 148. I think 148 was good to 
go. The conversation has died down between Sebastian and one of the other editors on there.

**Matthias** - Yeah. I cannot load it somehow. Okay, now it's good. It was a change of the address signed data. Yeah. Yeah. And there was also a bug discovered in the email edition that was fixed. So, I think that one is good to go for last check. There is a last comment from someone, but I actually don't get it. He's talking about adding a content type, arguments, or I could try to display the message being signed to the user. Generally speaking to display messages, to sign for users, it's a bit more complicated. Plus you need to have some comprehension of what the app is actually doing, the kind of scene. Which is probably something better left to wallet implementers and not put in the CIP itself, not putting the interface. If a wallet wants to show SundaeSwap or ADAhandle, or whatever that they're injecting with some specific details because they understand the problem, and how that is working, that's up to them. Probably a good marketing argument for wallets. So yeah, I would say we can move this one to last check from next round. There is no issue. It's already last check actually.

**M. Àngels** - Yeah.

**Matthias** - So that's why we already did that discussion last week, 2 weeks ago. So, okay, then what's the problem? There is CI failure. Because probably the headers is wrongly formatted or something like that. But did Rob changed actually? It didn't change the headers, so. But if I say what build fail, blah, blah, blah, cannot fit properly much of undefined. Ah, yeah. Okay. That's one of the thing we fixed two weeks ago, but the pull request hasn't changed since then. So, we need to revise it on later on the master and it should work. Okay. So, I can just do that and we can merge that one on the go, unless objections. Part, you follow these stories a bit or not much on your side maybe?

**Matthias** - Robert, you still here? If you speak, you're muted.

**Robert Phair** - Sorry. I was muted. OK.

**Robert Phair** - I was wondering why nobody... I knew you were looking for something from me. Okay. Yeah, so following the stories on those... the technical issues are fine for me. I just...

**Matthias** - Yeah.

**Robert Phair** - Which one in particular were you talking about? Just so I'm sure.

**Matthias** - Yeah. Just the CIP 30 addition for sign data. There was a few changes to the existing CIP 30, to make sure that you could sign arbitrary data, and that change also included a change on the address format, that you provide to the CIP 30. It used to be basically HEX encoded addresses in simple format. But now we just pass a vector 32 strings, which is more consistent with how addresses are usually manipulated on Cardano 

**Robert Phair** - I've been reading the comments, but they've been above my level. So, that's not my place to make any objections about it. That sounds good to me.

**Matthias** - Okay. And then we'll just have maybe Sebastian to vote on that. But, I think he was also on the same page. Okay. So we'll just re base the pro request under most recent changes, which should fix the CI failures, have the checked class, and yeah. Keep going.

**M. Àngels** - Good. So shall we move to the next one?

**Robert Phair** - Yeah.

### Review

#### PR200
 [PR200 - Add support for Catalyst multi-delegation](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/200)

**M. Àngels** - Okay. We have a pretty busy review section. So, first one is PR 200 Add support for Catalyst multi-delegation. I would like to ask you, before we deep dive in the details, if you could do a brief summary of what this PR is about.

**Matthias** - Yeah, of course we can do that, as we often do. So yeah. This one, which is PR 200, it came after another report request, right, which was PR188. And so, 188 was updating and existing CIP, CIP 15 to add support for registering multiple keys, as part of the catalyst voting process. When discussing this first update, we thought that it would be better to have it as a separate CIP, which is an extension of the existing one. Because it was quite substantially modifying the existing CIP, which makes it basically a completely different one. That was more appropriate to make a separate, which Mark did. And yeah. So the spirit is really to say, enable people to register multiple CIP's, with their catalyst registration votes, such that behind the scene, that can enable multi delegation, and therefore multi votes within the catalyst process. Right. I think we have also Kevin here on chat. So you could definitely...

**Frederic** - And at the same time, Robert just posted the notes for the meeting 40 that were merged. That was two weeks ago where we discussed this one briefly.

**Matthias** - Yeah.

**Frederic** - So, this pool request, I think has reached equilibrium. It just needs some extra derivation path that Kevin pushed in the comments. But, I think that Mark stop had the initial lot of this PR and is currently away. So, it's really a matter of either we merge this in without the path as draft for right now, or we wait for Mark to come back, and adjust it, and then we move it back to review. I don't know how you want to proceed on this.

**Matthias** - Yeah, we can probably also do the change, and add the change to it. Ask Mark for a review agreement. I think there was also a question of mentioning the original author of the PA, the update. Not sure if it was done, but I remember that from our last discussion, to just give credit to the original submitter, who was, who? Yang. Yeah. So, that there is no conflict. That everyone gets credited for their work, in this little other addition. And then, yeah. So, we could maybe do that. Flag maybe Mark for a second review, and then get it merged as a draft.

I've understood that this is being also worked on in parallel, in terms of implementation. Yeah, of course, Kevin. That's what I'm saying. There was this... Yeah. Rewriting the history to include Giacomo commit. I still have it on my tool to do here. It's a suggestion [inaudible 00:15:30] want team? Yes, indeed. And in terms of implementation, was anything I started on that could also help us move the CIP into maybe proposed at some point, there is a clear implementation path? The question for Kevin.

**M. Àngels** - Do you want me to bring him on stage so you can have a conversation?

**Matthias** - No, maybe not. I think we've said it all. I'm just giving you one to come and say something.

**M. Àngels** - Okay. So to summarize it, we are going to flag Mark for him to review, and if it's okay for him, it is going to get merged, right?

**Matthias** - Yeah, we'll put it as Last Check for next time. And yeah, next time merge it if there is indeed nothing also surfacing.

**M. Àngels** - Good.

**Matthias** - Yeah. So I will add the change actually to the CIP itself, these little comments, and then ping Mark about it to make sure that he is also in agreement with that change, which is more of an addition than an actual modification. It shouldn't be any problem.

**M. Àngels** - Good. So if Mark agrees, I can put this on last check next meeting?

**Matthias** - Yeah, definitely.

#### PR208
 [PR208- CIP-0030 Adding getCollateral function to the connector API](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/208)

**M. Àngels** - Good. So let's go to PR208- [CIP-0030] Adding getCollateral function to the connector API. Would you explain us, Matthias, what is this about?

**Matthias** - This is another extension of the CIP30, which is the adapt connector that is providing this interface between wallets and DApps. And this is about adding a function to get, or ask the wallet for a collaterall. Collateral is something that was introduced with the Alonzo Hardfork, which is necessary every time you want a transaction to execute a script. So the collateral has some special hold, right? It's an input of the transaction that is only spent and consumed if the transaction is failing during the script execution, which normally doesn't happen because you have plenty of ways to find if the transaction is correct before submitting it. But still, you have to put a collateral on that. And that collaterall is a special input because it must not be a script input, it must be ADA only. So that means for that it's quite practical to have way to just ask the wallet for such an input.

Say "Don't give me any EUTXO, but give me a EUTXO that satisfies all the collaterall preconditions." So yeah, that's extending the CIP30 in that way. Which, the CIP30 was treated before Alonzo. So it doesn't contain a lot of the details or the function necessary for actual DApps integration. And this is one of the few one that we'll get in. With a simple addition, semi-function, you get it as it's shown here in the mounts. And once you get back, it there is a EUTXO it's a satisfying condition. Or nothing there is no EUTXO that will satisfy this condition.

**Frederic** - So if you check the conversation on this one, you can see that this is actually the one that I was discussing earlier when we had that conversation with Sebastian, and they seem to have [inaudible 00:19:13] that agreement on the work on this. So it seems as though it's ready to move forward.

**Matthias** - Yeah, there is also a good comment from came in on the chats. CIP30 is at the center of many, many things at the moment, many, many decisions and changes. There is this notion of versioning on CIP30. So in principle, every new changes should come up with a new version number change, so that DAPP's and wallets can properly negotiate between each other which version of that CIP they already are using. And not quite enforcing that at the total level yet. Maybe we should start doing that a bit more, doing that structure a bit during the evolution of the CIP.
[crosstalk 00:20:04] with addition of other things, of course, addendum to existing CIP. It's a bit like we've done for the wallet things.

**Frederic** - So functionally, or structurally it makes sense to move this into a new CIP as a whole. Like for example, CIP37 and then have that one supplant CIP30.

**Matthias** - That's not really supplanting, right? Because it's just an addition. So everything in CIP30 will still apply, but then you have this extension that you may or not support as a wallet. But from the usability perspective, if you are a DAPP integrating your wallets, you don't necessarily want to have a list of all the things either wallet supports, but more like a version number. Actually, a list may also be relevant because a wallet might support this and this as features, but not these wallet features. And a version number would suggest a kind of sequentiality of CIPs, which may not be the case. So yeah, all that to say, perhaps better move to support CIP, have that as an addendum that refers to CIP30 and... Have the wallet then, let's be that integrating what kind of CIP's they support as extensions. That in itself would be a change to CIP30 also. I'd like to propose that.

**Frederic** - So the changes you propose is that we move this one as a standalone CIP being an addendum referring? I'd be okay with moving this into Last Check as is.

**Matthias** - Yeah, moving it as a last check, but also making it a separate CIP indeed. Just try not to overload too much the CIP30, but start 
integrating new changes to that CIP as new CIP's, the same way we sort of removed at the time this [Evant API 00:22:05] and put it out of scope on the CIP13's, and we move that to a separate proposal. Do the same thing here for that one, and I think also having a new function as part of the CIP30 interface, for wallets to return all the CIP they do support, like all the extension they do support. So for DAPP integrating with the wallets, they can just ask the wallet for that information and know if this or this feature is available. Although I guess it's also part of the wallet documentation maybe. If you're integrating with this or this wallet, you should know if they support the feature. But it makes it a bit more automated in that sense, so... Yeah.

**M. Àngels** - So the idea is to move this to Last Check for the next meeting, but as a new separate thing, as an addendum to CIP30. Is that right?

**Matthias** - Correct, correct. Next one-

**Robert Phair** - I think this also, just before we move onto the next one please, I think this also resolves a longstanding question we had about CIP13, where there were one or two suggestions to add something to the Cardano URI scheme last year. That just kind of lost some momentum because the people who submitted those PR's didn't drive them. But ?? and I were talking about how to handle a document that might actually get a lot of additions to it. So in the future, maybe if those issues come up again, I would suggest that they be dealt with in the same way. If someone wants to add something new to the URI scheme for instance, they could submit a new CIP rather than a modification to CIP13. If that's okay with everyone.

**Matthias** - Yeah definitely. Yeah, I agree with the original idea.

**Robert Phair** - Sure.

**M. Àngels** - And how, maybe that's a stupid question, but how we can let the creators of the PR know that they need to create a new CIP instead?

**Matthias** - We'll comment-

**Matthias** - We'll comment on the workplace. And in that case, the creator is Sebastian. We'll just ping him directly.

#### PR209
 [PR209 - [CIP-0030] Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/209)

**M. Àngels** - Yup. Okay, PR209 - [CIP-0030] Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable

**Matthias** - So that's also modification to the CIP, but this one is an actual modification which could go as an update as CIP30. It's small enough and it's modifying one of the existing functions. Okay, so this is about inquiring to enable only a specific network. Through the wallets? I would be curious to know the rationale behind that. It allows the DAPP to specify which network it operates on, so the wallet forces the user to only connect to wallet accounts on that network. Example, that [inaudible 00:25:18]. If not specified, the user is free to select any network, and the DAP must be able to handle it then. Okay. That kind of makes sense as it is, with this. Sebastian says "I would prefer if we instead used CIP-34 instead of just passing in a network ID otherwise this will cause issues if Cardano ever has >16 network IDs reserved (which is entirely possible in the future). Probably that should be done in parallel to deprecating the getNetworkId and replacing it with something that returns the CIP34 string" Yeah.

CIP34 was a CIP proposed by Sebastian to have a uniform chain ID that is uniform across block chains. So there is a standout which is used on Bitcoin, Ethereum, I think Solana as well, which specifies a certain format that identify a network across over to the possible blockchains. So Sebastian, "We're applying to one that would work for Cardano, which envelops both the network ID, the genesis hash, network advantage, and that could be used instead of just zero, one, two, three and blinds integers as a means to specify the network." Which I do agree. That makes also a lot of sense. So... Yeah. I will comment on the progress exactly with that. And then we can go back to reviewing it again next week, if we have any update from the others from last time.

**M. Àngels** - So we are going to review it again next week and get feedback.

#### PR215
 [PR215 - CIP-35: Plutus Core Evolution](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/215)

**Matthias** - Yeah. That's the one proposed by Michael about... Giving a [inaudible 00:27:33] process to, yeah, propose changes to Plutus. Right? So it's a bit of like a process on top of the CIP's, which specify all the different steps people will have to go through to get something implemented inside Plutus, which is a very interesting proposition by itself. It would be nice to come up with something like that for the ledger, or the consensus, or every part of Cardano, basically, and to have a clear path of how you can get an ID from a CIP in proposition, into actually being implemented into protocol by the team. So Michael gives a full process for that, which is very sensible in my opinion, that we have also been following in the proposal already, but having two proposals on top of that. On top of that, currently under discussion process. But the general idea is to say, well, you make a CIP, that explains good rationale, explains what you are going to change, and I've come also with proof in a way that what you are doing is correct. So they don't necessarily ask for people for doing the implementation, but at least you have a rationale and an idea of what will be the impact on Plutus.

For instance, if you claim you want to add a new built-in, then you should come up with a cost model of that built-in and explain why it works, or what would be the impact on the loan implementation and so forth. So that way the team doesn't have to do all that work, and can basically just verify that and then go on with the discussion right away. So it has also divided the different changes in multiple categories, explaining whether the changes would require a new Plutus version, a version of the language, or a hardfork, or if the changes can just be done in a fast forward way because they are just backward compatible. So it's pretty complete in terms of information, I think. So, yeah.

**M. Àngels** - So do we want to do it with this one?

**Matthias** - That's a good question. I mean, it's been already used kind of, by at least two other CIP's as a baseline for proposing changes. There hasn't been any comment on that one, which suggests that no one was in disagreement with the process. I think it's fairly well explained. So yeah, I will be all for moving into Last Check next time. But as far as I'm concerned, the process is clear. The CIP check all the boxes. And yeah, it is not a CIP that would require an implementation, because it's just describing a process. So I would even actually move it as active right away; the rationale being that it's pushed by one of the co-member of the Plutus team. And therefore, we have the implicit agreement that the team is also already okay with that CIP as a process for driving the Plutus implementation. What do you think about that, Fred? 

**Frederic** - I think moving it to Last Check and the push to active is fair. I mean, there being the but it sounds like if Michael's behind the PR, it kind of invites it, pretty much.

**Matthias** - Yeah, exactly.

**Frederic** - And Last Check for next meeting. So then Sebastian is going to be able to jump in and do a certain look-through.

**Matthias** - Yeah.

**M. Àngels** - Good. So that was what we had in our agenda.

**Frederic** - Uh, going back on this one is a minor conflict regarding CIP numbering but that might be... Which is that we have some conflict going on with the numbering. But 35 has been taken over and a few people are complaining that the allocation of number directly to the next available number is difficult so I suggest we just move this one as steady and request the other one which has whichever next number that is [inaudible 00:32:33].

**M. Àngels** - I don't know the other people but Fred I just lost the half of what you were talking, So, I understood the conflict with... To move and the number 35 and then you wanted to push another PR to another number. And this is what I didn't get.

**Frederic** - Yeah.

**Frederic** - You should go in the conversation for CIP 35 pull request 215, and scroll down to the bottom. There should be a link that CIP identifier is crashing with PR 137.

**Frederic** - And yeah, Michael just commented on this and, editors are responsible for taking numbers. In this case we have to move the other one.

**Matthias** - Which goes back to pull requests I was mentioning this week. Well, I have taken a read me and try to guess basically the, a table of proposals under review. Follow the read me, with preallocation of those CIP numbers. Which should give us a bit of organizational. That means we would have to maintain that table, which I think is fine. We don't have to maintain it more often than once every two weeks. So every meeting we could go over this. Proposals under review, make a little update so that we meet you... To get them.

**Matthias** - Side benefits we also get from that is, that table becomes part of the read me, which is the front page of the CIP site. Which means that it gets easier for people to browse through a distant CIP without having to go through the pages of full requests. It's a bit more comprehensible so review CIPs under discussions and get maybe more people to contribute.

**Matthias** - And in that case, the  Plutus  core  evolution, I've already pre-located that one the number 45. And I think other one, request number 15, I moved it as another unused number. So...

**M. Àngels** - So, it should be good right?

**Matthias** - Be good. Yeah.

**Frederic** - On that, I do think that this adds significant overhead but I don't know if it's really necessary but it sounds as though this deal it is. So, very open to that conversation.

**Matthias** - It does have a bit over our heads. And that's also Sebastian's concern when I discussed the PR within. I don't mind maintaining that list. And as I said, I don't think it has to be more often than every two weeks. It's not as... It's not a big cost overhead anyway. It is PR number 227, which I put in the chats. Right, so Robert already chipped on it. Think we're also in agreements.

**Matthias** - [Foreign language] changes. Sorry for my French. And feel free Robert to push any of these if you want.

**Matthias** -You should have the right access on this pull request I haven’ t forbidden people to add comments on top.

**Matthias** - So yeah, if you can look at the file changes this so you can have it on... Maybe.

**M. Àngels** - Where?

**Matthias** - Just a small, small explanation of what exactly the CIP process is, otherwise we will have confusions. And so put this little table proposals on reviews, which clearly explains that these proposals are being discussed but they are also for pre allocating the numbers. And I also added the editor lists from that file because I got the question several times from people who wanted to reach out to the author and they did not easily know that they had to look into CIP 1 to find the lists. So, I put it back in. It should be... So now, yeah. With that, we should have all this information regularly available on the website front page.

**Robert Phair** - I have just one question about the naming issue. Sorry if this is already covered in one of the meetings I wasn't at but... Because I did try to read all of this stuff. Is there a reason why people need to choose CIP numbers when they submit their original PR or could they just have CIP dash some name that's their content for CIP.

**Matthias** - No, no, that's the point. They shouldn't have to pick a number and the editor should do it.

**Robert Phair** - Okay. Okay.

**Matthias** - And that is just a way for us to get organized with that. And just advertise it, on the front page.

**Robert Phair** - Right. So the naming collision is only then because people thought they had to pick a number? Even though they were never told to-

**Matthias** - .. Yeah.

**Robert Phair** - ... [inaudible 00:37:44] page. Got it.

**Matthias** - So that could be a probably little addition to CIP 1, where I mentioned earlier. We also explain the process of submitting the CIP so you don't have to pick a number you just put XX or dash dash. The offer will put something, the editor will come up with something.

**Robert Phair** - Yeah, that's just what I was hoping for, thanks.

**Matthias** - [00:38:10] Okay. So Fred if you are okay also with that little change, we can get a little bit more organized on the number allocation, which also answers Kevin's concerns from earlier. I hope Kevin. And so yeah, CIP 35 currently, the Plutus core changes, I think it can stay as CIP 35 and as we say move to last check for next rounds and move everything to active. It's proposed by the co-team so there is no reason to, yeah. Just put it as draft proposals.

**M. Àngels** - Okay we are talking about PR 215 Plutus Core Evolution, right? To move it directly to active.

**Matthias** - Yeah, yeah. You can tell Michael to put this little change or just push it ourselves. And move it to last check meeting so that we have the ability to just have Sebastian also chip on it and tell us if he's against or voice concerns but I don't think that would be the case. And good. And then we can only encourage the other teams to do the same. So that we can move forward with other co-changes as well.

### Discussions

**M. Àngels** - So this was all for today that was planned? Do you want to review some specific PR? Maybe some, all of them?

**Matthias** -  No. I haven't got a lot of time to look at the PR recently. There a few new ones but... Not something we will do right now probably. Unless someone someone has something to bring in as well. Or, sell as built in data said Sebastian. So, yeah, that's one of the PR 215 which is based on the Plutus Core  changes proposal. I would maybe keep it for next time, this one. In the next meeting, so that once we have the Plutus Core Changes validated we can start looking at the proposals on top. And we can get quick review as well from, for it right now. Yeah, if you want to bring it on screen.

**Matthias** -Probably PR218.

**M. Àngels** -[00:40:52] Fred, you were saying that you need to drop?

**Frederic** - Oh, no I thought that you wanted to bring in Sebastian on screen and was proposing to drop. But, if you really don't recommend about them.

**M. Àngels** -[crosstalk 00:41:07] Is here?

**Frederic** - Sebastian Michael.

**M. Àngels** - Oh, okay.

**Matthias** - If [inaudible 00:41:15] speak.

**M. Àngels** - So, Sebastian do you want to speak?


#### PR218
 [PR218 - CIP-42? | New plutus builtin: serialiseBuiltinData](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/218)

**Matthias** - Not sure, just showing. So I can also cover this CIP, we co-wrote this with Sebastian, pretty much no worries about that. ll basically, speed up a few things we have as part of the Hydra development. If you built any functions that we can use from within and on on-chain scripts and the goal of A is to be able to sell some data into some binary digests so that you can use that as a pre-image for hashing on-chain. We currently only have on-chain built in for hashing stuff but I suppose you can produce some binary data that you can hash and this process is exactly about that. It's adding a built-in to produce some serialization of any data type in plutus. We've been discussing that with the team as well. The implementation actually has already started on this [inaudible 00:42:34] so we should know quite soon if it's actually working okay in terms of performances and what will be the cost model for that addition.

And yeah, so the proposal was based on this CIP 35 following the different Plutus steps. And yeah, that's about it. So I guess depending on the outcome of the implementation of what's going on, on the Plutus call, we can probably also move that CIP right into active. Because if it's already getting implemented it gets done, it gets validated then there is... We will have proof it has been active. According to CIP 35 again.

**M. Àngels** - So... in order to move it to active right now we have... I mean there's a lot of discussion even though this is new.

**Matthias** - Yeah, I'm not moving to active right now. But depending on the outcome of the Plutus Implementation which is still ongoing. So for now, I'm simply moving it to review for the next meeting.

**M. Àngels** - Okay.


#### PR222
 [PR222 - CIP-42? | New Plutus Core built-in dataHash](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/222)
 

**Matthias** - And at that time we will reassess what's the status. I just wanted to give a little status update on that one. Knowing that there is a conflicting proposal in a few months that was opened also right after. I think, yeah, which is PR 222. Which is also adding a new built in. But this one instead of providing a built-in to seriesalize any data, it's a built-in to directly compute the hash of any data. So it's all bundled together, the sale-ization and the hashing with the rationale that in most cases that's what people want to do. If you want to sale-ize on chain, this is for computing the hash, which is where I think we disagree.

**Matthias** -  That means, both proposals can also live side by side and it will be up to the Plutus team I guess, to decide on which one that gets implemented eventually, if any of the two gets implemented.

**M. Àngels** - Because it's one... That they are conflicting within each other.

**Matthias** - They are competing with each other because they are targeting, overlapping in terms of the features they provide. One is a bit more generic to the previous one, and this one is really tailored to a particular use case of computing the hash on-chain right away, which according to the author is arguably what's treat will always want to do. So yeah, there is slight disagreement I guess on this always. And yeah, so they will be competing in the sense that they can both be proposed as two Plutus core -evolutions and then following the process describing CIP 45, one will get implemented into Plutus, the other one probably not. But there is no problem having two overlapping built-in as part of the language, so I think the team will just choose one of them. And then we will be able to just either make one of the CIPs obsolete or if things happen before that just deprecate the complete CIP and not even propose it as draft.

So we can move it to review for next meeting I think so that we have both and can compare and reassess the situation. And since we will also be in European time zone we will probably have Michael, someone from the Plutus team to chip in.

**M. Àngels** - I think that makes sense to always review these two PR's together.

**Matthias** - Yeah, definitely.

#### PR220
 [CIP-43? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/220)

**Matthias** -
And since we are in CIP and Plutus changes, we could also look at CIP, what's the number? Sorry, PR 220, which is also about extending Plutus our co-changes. But this one with a new cryptographic primitives. This one was submitted by Migo, who is a cryptographer working at Input-Output, and he is proposing a new pairing mechanism on-chain, which is a full request for which we don't require some cryptographic expertise, which I don't think we have amongst editors. So we would have to find the right people for that one. So what had been discussed today it's... with people from [inaudible 00:47:39] I believe?

And Michael I also see end dates. So, I think what makes sense to have this one for next meeting as well as the review. And make sure we have someone with the big cryptographic expertise that can go through the changes although Iñigo is already probably that person.

**M. Àngels** - Are you going to reach them, Matthias, or do you want me to try to reach someone?

**Matthias** - I'll try to see if we can find someone from DCSpark who might have people there that can help, just to have at least two cryptographers discussing on this matter. That would be interesting.

**M. Àngels** - Okay. So let's move this to review for the next meeting, and maybe I will chat with you if you have the necessary expertise, or then we can wait until we have those expertise in order to review it. We have 10 minutes left.

**Matthias** - Anyone from the chat? We had a question already which I answered on the fly.

#### PR229
 [CIP-45? | Decentralization: Using Pledge as a Bidding Param](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/229)


**Robert Phair** - I have one thing regarding the question of whether a CIP affects a mathematical or protocol design issue. We had another PR, 229 decentralization using pledge as a bidding form. This is a walk in from a mathematically oriented fellow. There's a CIP with a lot of equations. And honestly, I don't know if any of the editors would be able to address this. Is there a way to officially request that we get someone else to look at the CIP based on merit, or is this beyond the scope of what we're trying to do? Just lodge the CIP and then have it represent some kind of a standard that's independent of a mathematical evaluation. 

**Matthias** - So on these matters we try to get experts to chip in. Exactly what I was saying also with the cryptographic proposal, when we don't have 
the expertise within ourselves at editors, we fetch for help and people that can help us. That's been the case of few other CIPs in the past. First thing I can think of is CIP seven for the [inaudible 00:50:36] benefits proposal, where we reach out for researchers to have actually buy in the CIP or to be able to chip in on that. There is no formal process with that. This is something we've been discussing internally at Input Output, really trying to get this into a formal process. It's sometimes a bit hard to move the researchers also from what they are doing to this. But it usually requires to load back a lot of context regarding global laws and the game theory and all that.

So the researchers are aware. From what I've understood, they have also started to work a bit on some of the CIPs. They don't have yet the time to put up a formal answer to a lot of them. Hope it'll come soon. And really I'm trying to get things in there to get things moving a bit. It takes time, but we'll eventually get there, I hope.

And comment also with the process, that's what I was saying earlier. I wish maybe more teams would engage the same way the Plutus team has engaged with the CIP process, defining their own process to drive those changes. For other things, for instance, at Plutus, we don't have also the expertise necessarily to know whether a change is sound or not. If you are changing a part of the compiler or something that really involves deep language theory, there is no way we can review that fully as editors. So we'll always have to get back to the Plutus team and reach out to them and have their expertise on the matter, which is why Michael came up with this process. That's a way for them to explain how we can reach out. I want to have the same thing for basically every single part of Cardano, have that for the consensus, have that for the ledger, have that networking. That's something that takes a bit of time to set up. Hopefully we will get there.

**Robert Phair** - What I did in this last case is invite the presenter to attend the meeting and see if he could say a bit about it and help us understand what it is he's getting at. And then maybe we can determine whether his ideas are presented properly enough to be evaluated at some future time.

**Matthias** - As a editors, that's pretty much all we can do when we lack the expertise necessary to judge the actual content, but we can at least see if there are proper rational motivations, steps that explains what's happening, which is for instance, the case for Iñigo's proposal. From an editors perspective, it looks okay, but I'm not able to judge whether there is a sufficient amount of details that will allow another cryptographers to review it. Sean is saying it would be great to have a feedback process for parameter changes CIP.

 We're getting to the hour almost.

**M. Àngels** - Would you like to do a quick wrap up of what you have reviewed, or do you want to…

### Close

**Matthias** - Indeed, we did this last week and people appreciated that. We should do it more often. So we went through a few proposals this week. First one was in line. That one we agreed on and actually merged, so it's finally merged in the repo as a draft CIP. The implementation is ongoing, so we should be able eventually to move it to active.

**Matthias** - Then we went through the CIP 30 addition, which is design data that was there already as a draft. And the CIP was adding a few specificities to it. It was clarifying a bit of documentation. We agreed also that it was fine, but the pull request was made a long time ago, and the repository checks are failing. So we first need to update this pull request to the latest changes, and it should be able also to be merged, which I will do after the call. 

Then we reviewed a few CIPs. So the first one was the PR 200, which adds the multi delegation support to catalyst, which should then allow to better split the voting on the Catalyst process. The limitation is also going on in parallel. The CIP has mostly settled. We agreed to move it to last check for the next meeting.

Then we went through CIP 30 addition, adding a collateral function to the connector API to allow that to update itself. But we said to move it as a separate safety and to do that for pretty much any new addition to the CIP 30 to avoid loading too much to the CIP. So we'll go back and ask the author to do that. We should be able to move it to last check for the next meeting.

Then we had another little update on CIP 30, which is proposing to add an optional argument to one of the existing functions. This one will also go back to the author to change perhaps the interface that is being chosen to avoid just using integers, have something a bit more structured and typed if they can. And finally the last one, we went and reviewed CIP 35 about defining a process for proposing changes to Plutus Core, which has been proposed by the Plutus team. Process has been already out for two weeks. There are already three CIPs that are based on these processes. So we agreed to move it to also last check for the next meeting and have it as an...

**M. Àngels** - For review we are moving and the 218 and 222 that are on top of this review, right by that.

**Matthias** - So all the changes based on this one will be moved to review for next week, but CIP 30 will have it as last check and merge as active right away since it's defining the process, and it's already backed by the core team, which makes it a good proof for activity. And we also discussed modifying the ReadMe, to get a list of pending CIP under review on the front page of the website also, and I have pre-allocated numbers to all existing CIP so we can get better organized within the number location. And that's the last, or did I forget something?

**M. Àngels** - PR 220, which we will need cryptographer expertise that we are going to try to get.

**Matthias** - So that's part of the Plutus score changes we'll review next week. And we'll try to get the help of a cryptographer on that one. I think Iñiigo, we would definitely be able to ask him if he can already join, maybe to work us through the proposal and have maybe someone, if not in the meeting itself, to at least be able to comment on the proposal itself.

**M. Àngels** - Next meeting is going to be in the Europe time. So I was wondering if we should bring to the agenda all those collateral PRs that we were waiting for Sebastian to review.

**Matthias** - That's a good idea.

**M. Àngels** - So if you don't have anything else to add, it's the time already. Thank you very much everyone.

**Matthias** - Thank you.

**M. Àngels** - It's been lovely meeting, and we'll see you in two weeks in European time 10:30 a.m. CET. Thank you very much, and have a nice week.

---
## Extra

### Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status

| #                 | Title                                                                                                                                         | Status                |
| ----------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1 | [CIP process](../CIP-0001/) | Active |
| 2 | [Coin Selection Algorithms for Cardano](../CIP-0002/) | Active |
| 3 | [Wallet key generation](../CIP-0003/) | Active |
| 4 | [Wallet Checksums](../CIP-0004/) | Draft |
| 5 | [Common Bech32 Prefixes](../CIP-0005/) | Draft |
| 6 | [Stake Pool Extended Metadata](../CIP-0006/) | Draft |
| 7 | [Curve Pledge Benefit](../CIP-0007/) | Proposed |
| 8 | [Message Signing](../CIP-0008/) | Draft |
| 9 | [Protocol Parameters](../CIP-0009/) | Draft |
| 10 | [Transaction Metadata Label Registry](../CIP-0010/) | Draft |
| 11 | [Staking key chain for HD wallets](../CIP-0011/) | Draft |
| 12 | [On-chain stake pool operator to delegates communication](../CIP-0012/) | Draft |
| 13 | [Cardano URI Scheme](../CIP-0013/) | Draft |
| 14 | [User-Facing Asset Fingerprint](../CIP-0014/) | Draft |
| 15 | [Catalyst Registration Transaction Metadata Format](../CIP-0015/) | Draft |
| 16 | [Cryptographic Key Serialisation Formats](../CIP-0016/) | Draft |
| 17 | [Cardano Delegation Portfolio](../CIP-0017/) | Active |
| 18 | [Multi-Stake-Keys Wallets](../CIP-0018/) | Draft |
| 19 | [Cardano Addresses](../CIP-0019/) | Active |
| 20 | [Transaction message/comment metadata](../CIP-0020/) | Active |
| 21 | [Transaction requirements for interoperability with hardware wallets](../CIP-0021/) | Draft |
| 22 | [Pool operator verification](../CIP-0022/) | Active |
| 23 | [Fair Min Fees](../CIP-0023/) | Draft |
| 24 | [Non-Centralizing Rankings](../CIP-0024/) | Draft |
| 25 | [NFT Metadata Standard](../CIP-0025/) | Draft |
| 26 | [Cardano Off-Chain Metadata](../CIP-0026/) | Draft |
| 27 | [CNFT Community Royalties Standard](../CIP-0027/) | Draft |
| 28 | [Protocol Parameters (Alonzo)](../CIP-0028/) | Draft |
| 29 | [Phase-1 Monetary Scripts Serialization Formats](../CIP-0029/) | Draft |
| 30 | [Cardano dApp-Wallet Web Bridge](../CIP-0030/) | Draft |
| 33 | [Reference Scripts](../CIP-0033/) | Draft |
| 34 | [Chain ID Registry](../CIP-0034/) | Draft |
| 1852 | [HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Wallets for Cardano](../CIP-1852/) | Draft |
| 1853 | [HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Stake Pool Cold Keys for Cardano](../CIP-1853/) | Draft |
| 1854 | [Multi-signatures HD Wallets](../CIP-1854/) | Draft |
| 1855 | [Forging policy keys for HD Wallets](../CIP-1855/) | Draft |

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
