 **Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [January 11 2022 notes](#january-11-2022-notes)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [PR186 - link rework for cips.cardano.org](#autogensite)
    + [PR148 - Update to CIP 30 (signData API)](#cip30)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [PR158 - tentative CIP 34: "Network Registry"](#network-registry)  
  * [Review](#review)
    + [PR159 - tentative CIP 31: "Reference Inputs"](#159)    
    + [PR160 - tentative CIP 32: "Inline Datums"](#160)   
    + [PR161 - tentative CIP 33: "Reference Scripts"](#161)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Close](#close)
- [Extra](#extra)
  * [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](#current-cips-in-the-cip-repository-and-their-status)
  * [CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram](#cip-creation-process-as-a-sequence-diagram)
  * [Understanding CIPs further](#understanding-cips-further)

## Summary

Rough writeup of 01/11/22 Editors meeting notes taken during that day's CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Notes might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly), [recorded](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly) and [summarized](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

- [x] **Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  
- [x] **Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  
- [x] **New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  
PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
- [x] **Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  
- [x] **Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  Distribution of the minutes via mailing list.  

## January 11 2022 notes 

**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, ~Duncan Coutts~, Sebastien Guillemot, Frederic Johnson, ~Robert Phair~. + guests


### Triage  

#### AutoGenSite
[PR186 - Tweaks for autogen site](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/186)  
**Frederic** - There isn't much to do in there and there is enough approvals already, we should be good to merge pending objections  
  
=> **Merge** NOW   

#### CIP30 
[PR148 - Update to CIP 30 (signData API)](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/148)  
**F** - This is ongoing (and has been discussed the prior meetings): has there been any major updates since the last time it was discussed.  
**Matthias** - Not for a few days. We are waiting for Rob to update, likely due to the Christmas lull - Hopefully Rob or Alessandro can follow up: the last point in the discusion was really about the format of the address in this interface, bech32 vs base16 and I see Alessandro commented in favor of bech32 but then we also would need to update the previous CIPs for consistency.. I will comment on that and try to restart/move the discussion forward.  
**F** - CIP 30 was looking at interactions between dApps and the Chain.. (And this PR here is just the addition of the signData API). (Asking community:) If you agree on one path versus another, add your feedback so the PR author can adjust the proposal (still, can be as new CIPs if others prefer different ways)   
  
=> On Hold for now  

### Last Check   

#### Network Registry

**F** - [PR158](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/158) - Tentative CIP 34: "Network Registry"  
**Sebastien** - This here is because Cardano only has up to 16 values for the networkID which is not enough to represents all possible (Cardano) testnets/ChainIDs of the future (for example, Ethereum has hundreds of testnets/chainIDs). So we need to expand the number of networkID that Cardano supports. We already have a mechanisms that supports it: the protocol magic. Combining both of those into a single value/object that libraries could pass as an object around would benefit everyone (as a machine format item).   
**F** - Any reasons to delay or open this conversation or could this be merged? (Requiring green ticks..)  
**M** - Approved. Note that this is the second or third "registry-like" CIP that we setup in this repository. It might be worth highlighting some aspects of Governance in the (registry-like) CIP itself so users know how/when/why things get merged or added to that specific registry. Other questions are around the role of Editors in regard to said "registry-like" CIPs... For this one it is rather unambiguous, but it is not as clear-cut for future ones: What if you are planning to build a network, and you aren't there yet... More of a greater consideration: Who decides what goes into (a) registry?   
**S** - Good point, but this is likely a higher level discussions regarding the Registries and the CIP repository itself. I wouldn't block this PR itself about it, but it could be a discussion to have 'soon', maybe modifying CIP 1 in some way to highlight how we'd want to handle registries directly.  
**M** - Either that or explicitly mention it in the CIP itself, it could define and decide how items could be merged or not merged and what the conditions should be - But it has to come from the author of the CIP him/herself, because otherwise we're making our own arguments. It would be better if it is explicitly stated in those CIPs. For future ones, Conditions for inclusion should be explicitly stated in the CIP.  
  
=> Merge NOW [PR158](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/158) as CIP 34  

### Review  

#### 159
[PR159 / potential CIP 31: "Reference Inputs"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/159)    
**M** - "Reference Inputs" are an extension of the Ledger so we can actually put inputs in a transaction that do not get consumed at the end, and are solely available in the context of scripts. This is useful in multiple scenarios, especially in conjunction with the other two associated PRs (160 & 161) because it can pave the way for 'importing scripts' or additional data without making it unavailable for other scripts: It can make concurrency a bit easier that way because we can share data on the chain and we can turn UTXO as a data source and not just a transfer of value. This here gives all the details on how to do that, what the changes would look like, how a transaction would be modified, what the rationale behind that change is. As I said, I haven't plugged into the discussion and what aspects were focused on lately. I saw MPJ did a poll at the end about one of the features/aspects.. (if we could remove that or not) and people have been weighing in.   
**F** -  Feedback seems to be that "Reference inputs without control is useful but also would be good to have control".  
**M** - "I don't need it, but I want it" - The question that will follow from that result would be "Can this be done in two steps?" i.e. "Not having control referencing" is easier, can it be introduced afterwards? In a way that could be a separate CIP, or an extension of that one..  
**M** - "Controlled referencing" is explained in a later paragraph in that CIP about it (MPJ explains it better). For example an Oracle might want to only allow a transaction to refer to a particular output if some other contract gets paid.. As explained, you make some data available, you might not want to do it for free: you still want to enable some cost, because it cost you something to make that data available. I suspect any Oracle is strongly in favor of that here. Maybe Andre (Knispel) could chip in? If it's feasible as a two step, or other Q.  
**Maksymilian** - WRT to Oracles being "dead in the water" it is partially true because controlled referencing essentially allows Oracles to work in a similar way that ChainLink does, where you pay for the use of the Oracle and the data is assumed to be correct and up-to-date. Without Controlled referencing (but with Reference inputs) it is possible to have a business model, but then people would be paying to "refresh" the Oracle instead of using it, which I suspect would be cutting into the profits significantly, unless you do some manipulating around - but who knows. In my opinion, this is the most important CIP in context of architectural aspects.  
**Matthias** - I prefer CIP 33.  
**Andre** - It is possible to have controlled referencing even with only this proposal, where if you control the script that would use the reference, then you can add a built-in mechanism that would at least control fit us right. Of course anyone can reference an input, but let's say I run some kind of service and I provide the script for interacting with this service, and I also provide the Oracle. Then - in my script - I can require some kind of token that proves that I have access to this input. For some usecases, we don't even need this controlled referencing, to have this kind of usecase supported.   
**M** - Is it relatively easier/feasible to have that done in two steps? I can definately see a usecase of CIP 31 "without controlled referencing", and that being introduced at a later stage.  
**A** - The problem with Controlled Referencing is that there are still many questions, notably around what it even means: If I want some kind of control over the referencing, how would I even get it? What would I do? Where would I put the conditions to referencing? We could maybe add a new kind of address, not a spending address but a reference address or something like that, and check if we can reference from that address in the UTXO. Maybe we could do something like that, but then this would be a pretty big change to how we do the things normally. In principle, it's feasible but it's not clear how we would do it and how exactly it should be possible to control the referencing. There is no reason why this couldn't be done in two steps, this CIP isn't super restrictive for future propositions.  
**S** - One thing to consider is timeline: We have the Babbage Hardfork coming up, but right now I am not sure if it would include reference scripts to an extend. If simplifying this could help include this in Babbage (rather than further out in June), I would be in favor of including this so.   
**A** - The plan is to include all of it in Babbage and we are pretty much on track. Of course if someone really really wants controlled referenced inputs then I don't know if that can actually be done.   
**Maksymilian** - I want to say that even if Oracles, like Charli3, want controlled reference inputs, even without control it is still worth it, because the oracles can maintain it themselves, even if it is a static piece of data changed every epoch or something, without neding payment for that because they themselves maintain it..  
**F** - CIP 31 is part of the conversation with 32 and 33, should this be rolled into the follow-on meeting as a review item?   
**Benjamin Hart** - If this were to be accepted with the Controlled References, is it necessarily required that a single release implement the entire proposal? or could it be implemented in phases?   
**M** - That's what we are discussing: Merging the whole proposal doesn't mean it has to be implemented in one block, especially because in the proposal it is actually already divided in multiple parts. I think it might be better to split it in two proposals - CIP 31a & 31b maybe?  So that you can release it and say we have implemented that and not that yet. For a few proposals this already happened, and we've seen that phased rollout, with a later add. If you know that this is going to be implemented in mulitple steps then you could already split the proposal more outwardly. Proposal does not imply any kind of target or future implementation really.   
  
=> On Hold / tabled (depends on activity, check-in next meeting)    

#### 160
[PR160 / potential CIP 32: "Inline Datums"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/160)    
**M** - This one is probably the least controversial of the grouping, and is about the ability to embed directly a datum (that isn't a hash) in the UTXOut. This can be useful with CIP 31 because you can then use the datum part to embed information in a UTXO that you can then cross-reference in a different script, which can then be used in some other flow. The hash is currently 32 bytes long, so it gives you 32 bytes of space available, it wouldn't make the UTXO bigger with that, and the proposal is limiting to that size at this stage, so the idea is not to enable arbitrary size for the datum but rather set it as 32 bytes, so what if you were to put only 2 bytes in there, not hash it, and make it available? You can already do that with padding in some sort - putting 0s in front of that, but the side effect is that you cannot spend that datum afterwards because it would mean you'd have to reveal (..) guess the preimage of that hash. 
It's useful, but the least discussed of the 3 proposals because it is not controversial and also relatively straightforward to implement compared to the other ones. Without CIP 31, CIP 32 is a lot less useable, or the usecase is less on the table.   
**S** - For "Inline Datums" I don't mind if it's merged as-is. There is some discussion on the CIP, but none of the proposals require actual change of the file, there is just a small TODO that could be removed, but nothing stops us from merging this PR.   
**M** - I think it is pretty clear, moving to 'Last Check' is definately fine.   
  
=> Moved to 'Last Check' 

#### 161
[PR 161 / potential CIP 33: "Reference scripts"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/161)    
**M** -  I am surprised this one is not more discussed compared to CIP 31. To me, this is **THE** CIP that will make it possible to scale the Plutus Ecosystem in a way. It makes it possible to have a sort of 'module' or 'mechanism' OnChain, as you can import a script, and reference a script from your script.. that reduces the size of your transaction as well, and you can start splitting your scripts or validators into multiple smaller ones, and have more mobility in a way. It makes Plutus more extensible without having to go through hardforks to modify the built-ins and without having to embed your entire codebase in every validator. From a useability or developer experience perspective: this is VERY useful. From a pure capability perspective, it's true that it doesn't give any new capability to the chain (except maybe run bigger scripts than before) and that might be why it's hardly discussed. It's part of the things that will not revolutionize things, but it will make the dev experience much much better.   
**Andre** - This does (not?) let the scripts reference other scripts directly, it only lets transactions mention scripts that don't have to be included in the Tx but are mentionned in the UTXO via the reference.   
**M** - And then your validator can insure this particular script gets executed...   
**Andre** - By doing some extra work it is possible you make these scripts do something.. But it's not like I put some scripts on the chain and then simply call functions..  
**M** - Right, It's not Automagic, yet it makes it easier.   
**F** - Do we need the other ones before moving this one to 'Last Check'?  
**M** - It's independant, and could have been implemented by reference inputs, but the proposal is not doing that, it is introducing a new component to every transaction output, it's fairly independant. We can move it to 'Last Check'.  
**Andre** - It's technically independant, but to be useful it needs some kind of referencing mechanism.  
**S** - I think this is fine for 'Last Check'  
**Las Safin** - I can tell you about 33 but I have already outlined my thoughts in the chat - this seem to be dependant on 31, but is not quite obvious, in the text it mentions refences inputs. You could implement it without, but it might not make sense: you would have an output and you would consume it. And you could use that script to consume another output that uses that script: It would be very weird, but you could make it independant, although it kinda is dependant.   
**M** - Eventually we understand you'd use it in conjunction with CIP 31. It doesn't really give you anything in there. You could say that this gets implemented first, then CIP 31 gets implemented later. And that's all this is, we can implement without, despite its use really meant to be used in conjunction with the others.   
**L** - You want the 3 of them to get the whole power. Can we merge 32 and 33 before 31? Both have no discussion ongoing it seems.   
**M** - reminder: "Merging something in the Repo" has no implication for implemetation or roadmap or endorsement by implementers! Therefore how these things are implemented, is out of scope of the CIP program. The CIPs are more like a collection of solutions to some problems, they aren't authoritative. We merge proposals that seem fine - If changes need to happen, that can still happen when in 'Draft'.  
**L** - So how do we reach consensus, for example to implement CIP 32 (as a non-controversial CIP)?  
**M** - Right now that is up to the Core team. Having a CIP here makes it clear that "This is a Proposed change" and people have time to voice their concerns or support of, then the core team can proceed accordingly (Likely going along the CIP as proposed). As of now the proposal looks legit/feasible. From here should be moved to 'Last Check'..   
**M** - If you take a CIP that refers to 'Wallets' for example, users can externally align on varied standards as they desire. For the nodes, right now there is only one implementer (IOG), but there might be other implementers down the line, for example if all parts of the nodes are captured by a set CIPs, then someone wanting to implement a node might look at that collection of CIPs. This  is how a new addition to the node, is planned, and IOG wants to open it up and align with the community and have people open on it, such as the feedback on CIP 31, which also allows the team to adjust the scope and the implementation, ahead of the implementation (rather than post-fact). Now we are having the discussion upfront, which is better.   
**L** - I also want to touch to 33 and it seems there isn't anything to discuss there either: basically things are settling.  
**S** - re:CIP 33, (just to make sure I get the usecase for combining with reference inputs) If you wanted to combined a shared module, you would create a UTXO entry that is possibly unspendable output, that contains the scripts for your output and then you get people to reference it and that's the main usecase right?  
**M** - Yes  
**S** - Fine to merge then, I have approved it and we can move it to 'Last Check'  
  
=> Moved to 'Last Check'   

### Discussions  


#### Royalties
re: [CIP 27 / on NFT royalty](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0027/README.md)   
**Maksymilian** - This proposal is just a consensus and yes, if a participant is not a malicious actor then it works.  
**Matthias** - This might be a misunderstanding of the CIP process itself: Someone made a proposal that was merged and it leaves the room open for someone else to come and make a proposal that supplants or deprecates CIP-0027. For my mind if there is a clear disagreement between what this CIP would do? There is room for a different CIP that explains the roles and explains the two different perspectives?   
**Maksymilian** - That is a good idea. Essentially we / I are creating an NFT platform that wants to ensure that Royalties are "every single time followed." I have designed it, and it is compatible with CIP-0027, it just adds a single field..    
**M** - As an editor, I would suggest you push it with the rationale as another proposal, then it would be fine to merge as well (as a separate CIP)  
**Maksymilian** - I don't fully agree that this solves it - malicious users might still avoid the royalties, and if we as a community come together (if not the solution that I am proposing) then I'd love that. I should make this as a CIP.  
**M** - Encouraged: highlight the flows and then push a proposal. You might also obsolete or get in touch with the Author of CIP-0027 to figure if worth or desired to add in the changes (rather than have a competing CIP). Over time, it's up to implementers, and the market can decide.   


#### PR188
[PR188 / Update to CIP-0015, re: Multi-Delegation](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/188)  
**S** - Currently you only have a choice of delegating to a single person to vote. This here is adding the ability to spread your delegation to multiple addresses. The idea being that being that you might want to delegate to a set of people.. I think the change is not that big and I feel the way they changed the CDDL may be off - but other than that I believe this is what the Catalyst team is already implementing and presumably the reason it is done like this, is due to it being the same format that Jormungandr (Rust-based chain, which powers Catalyst) supports.    
**F** - I was pushing back on this one re:naming, feedback from the community would be great. Can we move this to 'Review' for next meeting?  
**S** - I am not sure of the timeline for this one but I wouldn't mind moving this ahead... I don't think the change is that big.   

=> Moved to 'Review' for next meeting    


### Close    

=> **Merged** as CIP-0034 (Draft) - [PR158 - CIP 34: "Chain ID Registry"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0034)    
=> Hold on [PR148 - Update to CIP 30 (signData API)](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/148)   
=> Hold on [PR159 - tentative CIP 31: "Reference Inputs"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/159) as conversation continues  
=> To 'Last Check': [PR160 - tentative CIP 32: "Inline Datums"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/160)   
=> To 'Last Check': [PR161 - tentatice CIP 33: "Reference Scripts"](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/161)  


   

---
## Extra

### Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status

| #                 | Title                                                                                                                                         | Status                |
| ----------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------- |
| 1 | [CIP process](../CIP-0001/) | Active |
| 2 | [Coin Selection Algorithms for Cardano](../CIP-0002/) | Active |
| 3 | [Wallet key generation](../CIP-0003/) | Active |
| 4 | [Wallet Checksums](../CIP-0004/) | Draft |
| 5 | [Common Bech32 Prefixes](../CIP-0005/) | Draft |
| 6 | [Stake Pool Extended Metadata](../CIP-0006/) | Draft |
| 7 | [Curve Pledge Benefit](../CIP-0007/) | Proposed |
| 8 | [Message Signing](../CIP-0008/) | Draft |
| 9 | [Protocol Parameters](../CIP-0009/) | Draft |
| 10 | [Transaction Metadata Label Registry](../CIP-0010/) | Draft |
| 11 | [Staking key chain for HD wallets](../CIP-0011/) | Draft |
| 12 | [On-chain stake pool operator to delegates communication](../CIP-0012/) | Draft |
| 13 | [Cardano URI Scheme](../CIP-0013/) | Draft |
| 14 | [User-Facing Asset Fingerprint](../CIP-0014/) | Draft |
| 15 | [Catalyst Registration Transaction Metadata Format](../CIP-0015/) | Draft |
| 16 | [Cryptographic Key Serialisation Formats](../CIP-0016/) | Draft |
| 17 | [Cardano Delegation Portfolio](../CIP-0017/) | Active |
| 18 | [Multi-Stake-Keys Wallets](../CIP-0018/) | Draft |
| 19 | [Cardano Addresses](../CIP-0019/) | Active |
| 20 | [Transaction message/comment metadata](../CIP-0020/) | Active |
| 21 | [Transaction requirements for interoperability with hardware wallets](../CIP-0021/) | Draft |
| 22 | [Pool operator verification](../CIP-0022/) | Active |
| 23 | [Fair Min Fees](../CIP-0023/) | Draft |
| 24 | [Non-Centralizing Rankings](../CIP-0024/) | Draft |
| 25 | [NFT Metadata Standard](../CIP-0025/) | Draft |
| 26 | [Cardano Off-Chain Metadata](../CIP-0026/) | Draft |
| 27 | [CNFT Community Royalties Standard](../CIP-0027/) | Draft |
| 28 | [Protocol Parameters (Alonzo)](../CIP-0028/) | Draft |
| 29 | [Phase-1 Monetary Scripts Serialization Formats](../CIP-0029/) | Draft |
| 30 | [Cardano dApp-Wallet Web Bridge](../CIP-0030/) | Draft |
| 34 | [Chain ID Registry](../CIP-0034/) | Draft |
| 1852 | [HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Wallets for Cardano](../CIP-1852/) | Draft |
| 1853 | [HD (Hierarchy for Deterministic) Stake Pool Cold Keys for Cardano](../CIP-1853/) | Draft |
| 1854 | [Multi-signatures HD Wallets](../CIP-1854/) | Draft |
| 1855 | [Forging policy keys for HD Wallets](../CIP-1855/) | Draft |

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)




