**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [June 07 2022 Transcript](#june-07-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [CIP-0052? | Cardano audit best practice guidelines](#pr252)
    + [CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](#pr263)  
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](#pr226)
    + [CIP-0037? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge](#pr163)    
    + [CIP-0046? | Prepay Min Fixed Fee](#pr190)          
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](#pr242)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
    + [PR267 CIP-0025: Added version 2 and cddl](#pr267)
    + [PR 271- CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses](#pr271)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 07/06/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## June 07 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, ~Sebastien Guillemot~, ~Frederic Johnson~, ~Robert Phair~. 
**Guests**: 


**M. Àngels** -:  Welcome, everyone. Welcome everyone to the CIP Editor's meeting number 46. My name is Maria Angels Jover, and I work as a project manager at the Cardano Foundation. And I am here to facilitate this meeting. Today is the second time that we are using Discord as a new platform, and it's the first time that we are doing this in the European zone time. We had some technical difficulties in our first meeting that we expect to be solved today.

**M. Àngels** -:  Please, any feedback that you have on this new communication channel will be very much appreciated. To access the chat of the voice channel, you can hover here in open chat, and you will see that it will appear at the tab here with a chat where you can comment, ask questions, and participate in the conversation. You will see that I have added here, a link. This is link is a direct link to the meeting agenda, so you can access from your end and navigate to the links. The editors are able to bring you on stage, so you can ask to be on stage if you think that you have something that is worth to discuss live.

**M. Àngels** -:  And it's my pleasure today to introduce you to our editor for this meeting, that is Matthias Benkort. Matthias, are you able to speak? You should be able to unmute yourself. I see that you have unmuted yourself, but I am not hearing you. Seems like we are running into some issues, let's wait for Matthias. We are not hearing you Matthias, if you are speaking. Maybe it's the microphone that you have enabled with Discord, that is not the correct one? Apologies on these technical issues that we are facing. I mean, this happens with live sessions, so please bear with us, and this will be solved in a few minutes. Thank you very much.

**Matthias** -: Hello? Okay. [inaudible 00:06:26].

**M. Àngels** -:  Yes, welcome, Matthias.

**Matthias** -: [inaudible 00:06:28]. Yeah. I see Les asking, "Why use Discord?" And the truth is we have had mic issues with every single platform we've used so far, so I'm not sure any platform would actively serve that. And the reason we used Discord is because it allows us to have way more speakers on screen when we have to. It's more friendly. We have also a chat, and that's where the community are centralized around a few Discord channels. So it's quite handy to have things in one place. Okay. Having said that, shall we start?

**M. Àngels** -:  Sure, yeah. On screen, you can see the agenda. Matthias, do you want to discuss anything that is not included in the agenda today?

**Matthias** -: Let me see. [inaudible 00:08:00]. Yeah, maybe, we'll see at the end, but there has been a few Pull Requests recently, we'll just go through them quickly and see that.

### Triage

#### PR252
[PR252 CIP-0052? | Cardano audit best practice guidelines](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/252)


**M. Àngels** -:  Great, so we can start with triage right? So, in triage, we have CIP-0052? | Cardano audit best practice guidelines. Here we had some comments from the last meeting. It was suggested to move the discussion on the transaction spect to another CIP. This was supposed-

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Which we started, but at the same time, as long as this [inaudible 00:08:54] CIP is not fully done, I think it's still fine to keep it in CIP 52 for now, and we'll just remove it later. Sorry. There were a few comments that have been retraced by Simon since then, and I saw he did also some recent edits. He added an auditor list at the end. It's fine now. Everything is re-read, was reviewed last time, so. Okay.

**M. Àngels** -:  Are we going to Merge this one then Matthias?

**Matthias** -: Yeah, I cannot approve it right now because I don't have access to my GitHub account from Windows, but in the future.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. I'm going to take a note that this is going to be Merged online.

**Matthias** -: Yeah.

**M. Àngels** -:  Let's go to the second item on our list.

#### PR263
[PR263 CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/263)

**Matthias** -: So, PR 263 CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs

**M. Àngels** -:  Can you do a brief summary regarding this PR, Matthias?

**Matthias** -: Actually, I think we have Kieran with us, right? Who could actually give us some intellection? We could bring it on the-

**M. Àngels** -:  Sure.

**Matthias** -: Chat.

**M. Àngels** -:  Hi, Kieran. Yes, perfect.

**Kieran** -: So yeah, this CIP, it's about a JavaScript API to be provided to JavaScript NFTs. So it's a fairly niche thing, I suppose, but it does need to be standardized because there are people developing or needing implementations of something like this at the moment. There needs to be a global standard that everyone relies on, so that's what we're trying to build here.

**Kieran** -: Yeah, basically it's about allowing NFTs to read data from the blockchain itself. [inaudible 00:11:11] token in your wallet in an NFT [inaudible 00:11:35].

**Matthias** -: Okay so this is a sort of standard for a format on chain that allows wallets to query the informations about NFTs?

**Kieran** -: Its to allow the NFT itself to query the blockchain, 'cause we have these JavaScript NFTs now, basically HTML pages with JavaScript in them. Currently they are some blocks so they call them [inaudible 00:12:02] which is causing people to commit a lot of data to the chain that doesn't need to be committed to the chain. So what this is about is allowing NFTs to create data directly from the chain without having to commit within that NFT itself so it's to reduce data duplication on chain data of the effects of this. It's also about allowing NFTs JavaScript to only [inaudible 00:12:30] the NFTs. It's allowing JavaScript NFTs to read arbitrary data from the chain and react how they see fit to that. It's things like, let's say you've got a chimp NFT and you buy it a hat, you can buy the hat as a single NFT and then the chimp NFT render the hat wallet, knowing you've got that hat NFT wallet inside the chip, does that make sense?

**Matthias** -: Kind of. So the concept of JavaScript NFT doesn't make sense to me, what makes sense though is a JavaScript written DApps that interact with NFTs possibly, I think.

**Kieran** -: JavaScript NFTs, this is something that is really happenning but an NFT is just a file attached to a token, right? And then that file could be an HTML file. And this is the thing that you could do, I don't know if you've seem mesmerized [inaudible 00:13:33] JavaScript NFT. And then there's a lot of people doing this now, this is a API for JavaScript.

**Matthias** -: Okay, an API in the sense of an extension to CIP 30, current API, right? So that's something we implemented by wallets or simply all the plug-ins behind the scene, so.

**Kieran** -: It would be implemented by the site rendering the NFT so it could be [inaudible 00:14:04], it could be JPEG store or it could be Artifact it be in the website that renders the-

**Matthias** -: Yeah, okay, got it. Is there any working example of that already? Like is it something-

**Kieran** -: I am working on it right now.

**Matthias** -: Okay. That would be good to add on the path to active.

**Kieran** -: Yeah.

**Matthias** -: Once you have that or maybe already an idea of it. Okay. So the main thing I think we would have to view then is the API below. One thing I can already tell maybe would be to add versioning changes to the API, and that's something we tend to have forgotten on the previous API we have wrote, and that all came afterwards, like, "Oh, fuck. Now we need to have changes, but now you don't know which version you need to implement." So chances that there will also be changes to add to this [inaudible 00:15:01]. I would suggest really having an API on this one, or just make it theory that this will be the final API, we call it CIP 54. And any extension or any addition would be done as a CIPs, and then it becomes a big theorem because it's at least the number of CIPs that we should pause.

**Kieran** -: One thing adding versioning to this would be the way to go, because it refers to the 721 enterprise of [inaudible 00:15:19] version 1.1, 'cause we already have a version 1.0, would not be [inaudible 00:15:34].

**Matthias** -: Yeah and there is 2.0 coming. Right.

**Kieran** -: 2.0 coming is [inaudible 00:15:42]. So should I call this 1.1 for that?

**Matthias** -: Um, I mean this one should probably follow a separate versioning.

**Kieran** -: [inaudible 00:15:50].

**Matthias** -: Yeah, its own versioning [inaudible 00:15:53] or you can just pick it to the versioning 71. I'm sorry.

**Kieran** -: I'll have to think about that but I will update the version.

**Matthias** -: Okay, so I haven't yet read the full CIP, only read the abstract so far, but yeah we need to dive a little more deep here. From the idea standpoint, I don't think there is any major problem. It's truly just we only can Cardano API.

**Kieran** -: That's right. Yeah.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. From a security standpoint, there is not much issue with that. So I would love to see also if you have a working [inaudible 00:16:38] maybe so that we can possibly already Merge it as active, as we do.

**Matthias** -: I see there is also the follow up link of what has been the feedback so far from discussion of NFT.

**Kieran** -: I've gotten multiple NFT creators who are really excited about being able to use this. There's a lot of feedback that's really come from there. This was actually a much simpler API to begin with. I've added quite a lot in response to feedback. I was actually trying to keep it simple because we wanted the implementation to be as light as possible, had quite a lot of feedback for some extra things people would like to add and I've started to bear the fine line of trying not to add too much stuff onto this extra version because I want it to be implemented easily.

**Matthias** -: Okay.

**Kieran** -: We're sort of balancing it, but there's definitely been a lot of feedback both on the forum and then spoken to me on Twitter, and working with Alexander from [inaudible 00:17:25]. So, yeah, I've got quite a few things to go.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Would you mind maybe adding a rational section to the CIP, mentioning maybe some of the feedback you've been discussing and why things have [inaudible 00:18:00] the API?

**Kieran** -: Yeah.

**Matthias** -: Just for the report. Oh, yeah. Also the type. I've commented that last time. Standard is really reserved for core critical changes, like through to stuff or later holes secure. It would be more of a process, right?

**Kieran** -: It's just changing metadata.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. The type of the same process here. Or informational, but I think it's going to be more of a process, right? It describes these kind of protocols between those smartness and data provider, in that sense.

**Kieran** -: Yeah. Sure.

**Matthias** -: Okay. And I guess we can just move it to last check for next time, it's been already really quite extensively on the forum that I can see. We'll make a small rational section and we'll try also make maybe a summary of the comments, when commenting on it and send the next time. We can go back to check if there is already an implementation ready and it's been endorsed by some of the platforms out there. We can activate right away or just go with proposed until there are also proof of that.

**Kieran** -: Okay. Great. I've got do list [inaudible 00:19:25].

**Matthias** -: Good, thank you.

**Kieran** -: Thanks.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Matthias** -: Next.

### Last Check 

#### PR226
 [PR226 CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/226)

**M. Àngels** -:  We can move them on to the items on last check. The first item we have is PR226 CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification

**Matthias** -: Additional factor. Do we have Eric here?

**M. Àngels** -:  I don't see anyone by the name of Eric.

**Matthias** -: What was this one? Sorry. It was a busy week last week. Perhaps we can switch. Hadn't got to go through this piece as I wanted to. Okay. So there is somebody [inaudible 00:20:29] the header, but it's okay. Let's see that later. Simple summary, a community standout for the NFT policy ideas to facilitate market verification, utilizing a new number, name asset tag hate with one online on chain accounts bank utilize this proposal [inaudible 00:21:08] Okay. To it is a standards. Two include with metadata. So KYC metadata to, [inaudible 00:21:31].

**Matthias** -: So what's the ID specifications, creating new tech creator makes a new current see and use one more existing online platform, social update. [inaudible 00:22:05] I'm not sure to fully understand exactly how would that work in practice. So the first question that would come to my mind is how do we exactly prove that whoever posted metadata are actually the NFT owners and not someone else since it allows to be original data, that means you can come later and also change those data.

**Matthias** -: I mean, what elements ties you as the NFT owner or the owner of this metadata and why can't anyone [inaudible 00:23:23]. Is there also a community discussions happen? Yes, I see. So thank you.

**M. Àngels** -:  Matthias, where are you seeing the comments, the activity?

**Matthias** -: Sorry, she's going to share this link in this channel here. So the second version of the side written, because there are two files on the [inaudible 00:24:36]. One of them is I think the latest iteration and it has a comment stream on the top. You high with also a discussion thread, which I will need to go through and see what's up. So I see there has been quite a few feedback and is the latest version of the proposal things from that, I suppose.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So I'm a bit worried on the security implication of that more, the spoofing kind of capability. People like this so I want to carefully get feedback straight on the forum before saying anything. Let's keep it for the next meeting and I'll make sure actually to go through the comments and also post this small summary on that CIP.

**M. Àngels** -:  Do you want to add as under review section for next meeting?

**Matthias** -: Yeah.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Matthias** -: This one. Yeah. I think there will be another bunch of comments and we'll probably need a bit more engagement from well marketplaces and NFT of platforms, because this is really geared toward them, towards how to get NFT approval. So it would be nice to get also input from the existing marketplaces, maybe to see how they currently do it. And if that solves an actual problem in your site.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. So you want to move to the next item on the agenda, Matthias?

**Matthias** -: Mm-hmm.


#### PR190
 [PR190 CIP-0046? | Prepay Min Fixed Fee](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/190)

**M. Àngels** -:  CIP-0046? | Prepay Min Fixed Fee

**M. Àngels** -:  I think that I added a few items on the agenda related to the... Oh, just let me look for it. There was like two CIP on the past meeting that you proposed to Merge it as proposed and listing the path to active. So these are the two following ones and I added them to suggest to Merge them online today, but I guess that you cannot Merge it, right, because you are on windows and you don't have rights.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, exactly. And they're still lacking enough approvals anyway, from the leaders. For instance, the prepay meet fixed fees, the moment hasn't been approved at all. So, well also need to get Robert and Sebastian. Inputs on that, I think last time we pretty much treat and the spirit was to say, "Let's have them Merged as proposed and make it clear in the past active that the goal is 90, well on the side of IOG to review that and give a clear answer from a research standpoint or signature standpoint, yes or no, to CIPs." Make sense or won't be implemented, but in network [inaudible 00:28:52] that's pretty much where we stop.


#### PR163
 [PR163 CIP-0037? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/163)

**Matthias** -: On PR163 CIP-0037? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge . What about this one? We got approval things with the same situations. Yes. It's been commented a lot. So basically, no updates from this. And last week we also... I mean, we need the others to do the updates to proceed and for us to approve. So we can maybe just park them on the site for now until we have a activity from the young [inaudible 00:29:34].

**M. Àngels** -:  Hey, shall we add a tag waiting for the author?

**Matthias** -: Oh, yeah. Actually [inaudible 00:29:50].

**M. Àngels** -:  Sure. Done. And what we are missing from the author is to add the path to active. Right?

**Matthias** -: Yeah. And also just make sure that they acknowledge the current situation too.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Matthias** -: Yeah.

### Review 

#### PR242
 [PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**M. Àngels** -:  Perfect. So next item on our agenda is PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update weekly update that we decided to make a biweekly update on the CIP that had a lot of activity.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. So it has got a bit less of activity recently. So Michael responded to some of the things that we commented on and mainly there is still this discussions on basically whether or not the... How do you say that? It's actually just reads Michael comments. That would be not by paraphrasing anything. as he's saying. What was that? Sorry. Trying to find the right comments.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. So as you say, ideally, IOG researchers would participate here, not in private, but afterwards, so that we could all collaboratively develop CIP 50 and I hope draft a new 2023 errors revised paper together. So in three months we have the discussion happening. As I said last time from what I got from the researchers, they are actually not willing to discuss it, or they don't have time at the moment for it. We try to set up this focus group, but we've got some pushback. So at this point it's a bit the same situation as to others. Either we need more community leverage or there is not much we can do to make the conversation move forward.

**M. Àngels** -:  So, do you want to put it on hold for a few meetings and maybe after the hard fork before trying to move it again?

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I mean, we'll need to poke basically IOG constantly, I guess, until we get a reaction. There was also this new simulation engine that was supposed to come out. So maybe that would be a good time to look again into the CIP once this simulation engine is out, although there is no clear timeline, so this could also very much be six months or a year from now, which I don't know.

**Matthias** -: I see also there is a comment from last week that I missed from an SPO. Which is quite lengthy. So from the quick reads, it seems to be again, debating on whether or not the CIP makes things better regarding decentralization. Because there is also this question at this stage, and this is what was brought up by the researchers when they looked at CIPs, was that from a decentralization standpoint and again, theory standpoint, this was an approach that was discussed during the early days of Shelley's and that was rolled out because not good enough at maintaining decentralization. So multiples were also considered in designing the first place. Yeah.

**Matthias** -: I mean, the situation we are in today was kind of already included. So there is probably better to do but whether CIP 50 is going in that direction, it's also good question and it's not clear right now. We don't have any quite clear proof that it is actually going in the right direction. So far it seems to be more of in sentiment than an actual well calculations or simulation of that new theory. Maybe that's something which would be worth trying on the site network. But importantly, we don't really have that.

**Matthias** -: And the stake on the test net would be for instance, much more different because it's all free money and people don't have the same behavior, therefore. So, yeah, I don't know. We can try to bring IOG back again, see what's the answer and keep to have short update on that every week or every two weeks.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. So we are going to keep it through for next meeting agenda?

**Matthias** -: I would say for now, yes. And let's see, we probably won't get any update from Input Output before the Hard Fork. Because I guess all minds are focused on that, but we might a bit later.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. So that was all that was in the agenda for today's meeting. So maybe, Matthias, you want to review those new CIP you commented at the beginning of the session?

**Matthias** -: Yes. But I just have a small urgency to cope with, so I will be back in two minutes.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.


### Discussions

#### PR267
 [PR267 CIP-0025: Added version 2 and cddl](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/267)

**Matthias** -: But I would like to look at PR 267 CIP-0025: Added version 2 and cddl, at least. So maybe we can already print to screen.

**M. Àngels** -:  Sure. Take your time, Matthias and I will leave it here for everybody to read it. I will share the link on the chat and also here. So let's wait a few minutes until Matthias is back.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Sorry for that.

**M. Àngels** -:  No problem. Do you want to make a brief summary of CIP 267?

**Matthias** -: CIP-0025: Added version 2 and cddl #267

**Matthias** -: No, sorry. Yeah. Pull Request 267. Yeah. So this is a iteration on CIP 25, right? Which was the NFT metadata standard we ha not exposed, but mentioned a few points that could be improved last time. And the idea was to make a version two that would address those points or this is basically it. Okay. What I see here. Yeah. I think one thing we discussed and that's also Sebastian maybe mentioning it, or. So it would be good to have the CGTL as a separate files as always, but at least now we've got a clear onchain CDDL specifications of the metadata for the CIP.

**Matthias** -: I think it is mainly compatible version one in the sense that it embeds the same informations, but there is a slight difference in the way the asset names gets included. For instance, right now it used to be just playing UTF-8 text string, whereas this new one uses actually raw binary bytes through CBOR encoding. So since this is entry data any way, that makes much more sense.

**Matthias** -: For the rest, I think what has changed the media type probably, the remains optional. Yeah. And it has also now version number two. Yeah. Overall it addresses the points we mentioned right back on that CIP. And therefore, I think we can move it to last check for next time. It'll be fine to have as is. And maybe it would be also a good opportunity to change the status of CIP 25 to active instead of draft. But beyond that, the rest makes sense. It's basically the same structure and it's just addressing the issues on the asset name plus explicit version name.

**Matthias** -: I see there is a comment in the chat, not on that one, on the previous one. So in what channel do we discuss the IOG, which shows we don't have time. We are getting pushback. Yeah. Not on this call, actually this happens through private channels unfortunately also. So the whole point of making [inaudible 00:43:06]. Yeah, no, I mean, I think so. I think you're right. Although I don't think we keep the illusions, we are working on it. I mean, it's pretty clear that we are not working on it because we are blocked by IOG's feedback at this stage. And that's why I'm just proposing to keep just regular updates on those CIPs to have them Merge as proposed and simply make it clear in the past to active that the next steps now is to be done by IOG, to assess the CIPs and to give a clear answer on the feasibility. IOG, I also include the research side of things.

**Matthias** -: And then it's just, I guess only up to the community to voice it enough that maybe it kind of forces IOGs end to actually allocate time to debts. But at the same time, what is more important between this or for instance, input endorsers, arguably the community should be deciding that's not IOG, generally. So if the community deems that this one is more interesting and more important, then that's probably how it should be framed. But there is also not much channel at this stage to kind of voice those concerns, right? So I'm not sure how to proceed, basically how to make the best out of it.

**M. Àngels** -:  I see on my writing on the chat, may I bring him to the-

**Matthias** -: Yeah, maybe actually having on the chats that would be easier than writing things. Although writing has nice.

**M. Àngels** -:  Hi, Homer. You should be able to speak now.

**Matthias** -: Sorry, he can't talk. Putting kids to bed, ah.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Matthias** -: Well, we can have that conversation also off time. So I mean, on the channel later meetings as well and that would be a good feedback also to put to IOG. Maybe the right ways, I don't know, to write letter and make it clear that this is something the committee wants and something times could be allocated to. I don't mind pining Charles directly as well, if needs be. Just poking in and saying, "Hey, look. This needs attention from the community, from IOG because the community wants it." And I mean, I guess if we make enough noise, then it might be okay. I'm not sure if you're trying to speak, Homer, but we hear some...

**M. Àngels** -:  It might be me, I will mute at myself.

#### PR271
 [PR 271- CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/271)

**Matthias** -: PR 271- CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses
 Ah. Okay, well let's see how we can do. I don't know, perhaps the Twitter or call seems like the community loves Twitter. What's the next thing that IOG should be implementing? Okay. That was it for CIP 25 update. What time is it right now? At 8:00 is left that. So there is a new CIP for [inaudible 00:47:12], but we won't go through that right now. That's quite length, although interesting. Treasury donations is a bit of the same, quite big overall. And so there is a small update I see on CIP 27 [inaudible 00:47:33] latest, where that was made to PR 271, which is what exactly as NFT projects become more extreme projects may need to handle multiple royalties addresses for team members.

**Matthias** -: This PR is created to [inaudible 00:47:58] show implementation community. So multi [inaudible 00:48:10]. The feedback this class consider during short discussions surrounding royalties on chain. And there is multiple problem that arises when declare multiple priorities increases which research receive, which amounts quality [inaudible 00:48:25]. And what about using smart contract for that? Want to address, but specific holes on who can spend in minutes. That's perfect job for [inaudible] .

**Matthias** -: So I guess I will just cut that add, because I see is the CIP defines a... I mean, this exemption seems to define a off chain [inaudible 00:49:12] in the royalties as for what should be the different distribution, [inaudible 00:49:22] royalties between different addresses. I think this is just accessory in the sense that this is something you can do completely with script company. So with a single address, you make it a script address. And while sending the royalties to that script address, it can then convert completely how the funds get distributed and deemed from that address later on. So that will be entirely up to whoever set the initial royalty.

**Matthias** -: I mean, from a proposal standpoint, I guess proposal is fine. This is definitely something, guess it would be better handled by street addresses traces. So I can comment right now, but I will, once I get back on my lovely minutes.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I see someone is typing on the chats. I would also very much like to see incentive research team. Okay. So that's [inaudible 00:50:52]. So we'll get back to this, but okay. So on CIP 27, I will comment with what I just said. I mean, this is a substantial update on the CIP itself. So either the format will need to be made backward compatible. I would suggest another CIP and I will actually strongly suggest to use crypto address for that instead of changing anything because of the format and then see. Yeah. So give that as a feedback to the authors, unless we have the author right now with us. I don't think so. Okay. Let's maybe wrap up with the three minutes left.

### Close 

**Matthias** -: All right. So CIP 52 agreed to proceed with reaching as active [inaudible 00:52:07] even. CIP 54, Cardano Smart NFTs. So discussion still going, mostly sounds fine so far from the... So face review needs a more in depth review for the API to see if we catch anything. And the author to add a rational section also summarizing the different feedback behind some of the decisions that were made but good to move as last check for next time.

**Matthias** -: CIP 44, additional factor for NFT market verification, felt a bit unclear in terms of, security implications and or spoofing/hijacking this this approach also when led to get that feedback to the author and see, this is something they have thought of. Awesome.

**Matthias** -: Prepaid means fee and dynamic saturation based on pledge, sort of in the same bucket as CIP 50, which looks fine from an editorial standpoint. The ideas make sense at least from a reduced standpoint, but there are debates as for whether or not they improve the situations. And we need clear updates from IOG regarding this. So from an editorial standpoint, there is not much we can do with these proposals anymore except mitigating the discussions, maybe. So we'll keep poking at IOG, keep making noise and maybe see how we can move them forward giving that feedback.

**Matthias** -: We also went through an update on CIP 25, which is adding two, fixing some of the issues that we mentioned months ago, post one first in one. And we briefly looked at an update on CIP 27 which I think would be better addressed by script address and possibly otherwise be made as in other CIP as an extension of the existing one, if that's something the author still want to pursue. So that is it for today. Thanks for attending, everyone. And thanks for Kieran also coming. On vocal to explain everything that is nice. And let's try to follow up on that research involvement for the CIPs.

**M. Àngels** -:  As Matthias said, thank you very much, everyone for attending. Next meeting is not going to be in two weeks, it's going to be in three weeks because we are in a business trip in two weeks, and it's going to be held on the United States time zone. This is 4:00 PM UTC. Thank you very much and have a lovely day. Bye-bye.


---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
