**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [July 05 2022 Transcript](#july-05-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [CIP-0059? | Terminology Surrounding Core Features](#pr274)
    + [CIP-0038? | On-Chain Token Metadata Standard](#pr137)
    + [CIP-0030? | Events API](#pr151)
    + [CIP-0037? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge](#pr163)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](#pr263)
    + [CIP-0381? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](#pr220)     
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](#pr226)
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update weekly update](#pr242)     
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 05/07/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significance to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## July 05 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Frederic Johnson~, ~Robert Phair~. 
**Guests**:

### Triage

#### PR274
[PR274 CIP-0059? | Terminology Surrounding Core Features](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/274)

**Matthias** - :  Yeah, we can start already and go right in the first item, right, CIP 59, which was proposed by Jared, I think after a chat on a different CIP or different debates around Vasil versus Babbage, and what do names mean exactly in Cardano. A lot of people seem to have gotten confused by the names being employed. So he wrote a small, informational CIP, there is not really much to debate in a way except maybe if people disagree with it and want to change it, but since there is a track record already... It just explains where the name come from, what they are and the rationale behind is, why they were chosen like that. Like between era, and a phase, and a network and protocol. And he has also put up a nice table which summarizes all of that, which is nice, so it gives just a bit more clarity about naming.

**Matthias** - :  And yeah, so I pointed to him last time a few things to do regarding the proposal of just the editorial stuff, putting a number, putting the readme in the correct folder. He did all of that and he already marked it as active as I suggested, just because as I said, it's an informational CIP explaining the terminology picked by the core team. It's from the core team itself and it's also recording or explaining things from the past six eras or so. So yeah, there is no point going to things like propose, and then active, and then whatever, unless someone disagree with that. Okay. 

**Sebastien** -, and your opinion maybe, if you are here.

**Sebastien** -:  I joined probably through the conversation, so I'm missing the beginning.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah. Okay, sorry. We are talking about CIP 59, the terminologies surrounding core features, which was proposed by Jared some time ago to clarify a bit of the terminology around the core features. And I was saying, this one could probably just go as active right away because it's just explaining what's in there.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah, I think so. I think that makes sense. I read through it and everything, and it made sense to me. So I don't mind both merging and marking it is actually the right away.

**Matthias** - :  We have a question. Oh sorry, that's some other stuff. So yeah okay, let's do that. I think we have reviewed it. I would just add my review now, that's all the... Yeah, All change has been made. Happy to approve. Happy to merge. Okay. Next one, on chain token metadata standard which has been reviewed for a while. We had a few remark questions. A lot of people were debating stuff in particular. The security of that, I think Michael Peyton Jones is usually against anything that is put on chain and it is based on minting transactions because indeed it has security issues or implications.

**Matthias** - :  If we start heavily relying on people providing the metadata being the same as people minting the tokens, which has been generally the case in Cardano, but it's not a given. So I think he has a fair point. But yeah, the proposal has been stalled ever since, I think. It hasn't really moved, we are waiting for the author to come back to it. But yeah, I'm not sure if there is much to say on this one. Yeah. No remark, no question. I guess we can just leave it there.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. I have something on this topic, but I'm going to have to address it in maybe a minute, if you just give me a minute.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah, okay, okay. So depending on what you see, we'll see what to do with that one. Maybe it can also be picked up by someone else for a different standard or maybe reformulate the ID in a slightly different way. Yeah. And I don't know if there is any prior work also on that, I bet there is. So people putting all kind of metadata on chain. Now that has been the case for NFT, and I don't know if it has been the case for tokens themself -- I mean fungible tokens, at least I don't recall any project doing that.

**Sebastien** -:  Okay. Sorry, I'm back. Sorry, I had to step on the elevator really quickly. Yeah. So the problem with the CIP is just the metadata portion of it. And Michael Peyton Jones is correct that there is no partially good solution to this. And yeah, my understanding is that there's a lot of discussion, then we are waiting for the author. I was wondering if maybe we pick this up as part of the log standard that I talked to you about over DM. So to fill everybody in on this, basically in Plutus, you can log messages as a trace command. Apparently, this is ignored by everybody, but you... indexers that basically rerun the Plutus code, figure out what the log statements were for the execution and then make this available to indexers to do stuff on.

**Sebastien** -:  So if we standardize this logging format with a topic, we could do minting transactions, can basically log out the metadata only once in the transaction and then get some agreed upon standardized topic for this. And then indexers would just need to be looking for additional places for contracts, they would just look for whatever minting transaction includes log statement that provides this information.

**Matthias** - :  But you would also not be solving the problem that Michael was pointing at, right, which is that it's not necessarily the same person that is providing the metadata than the one doing the minting, it changes how you specify the metadata. So instead of having them as plain metadata, which is not verifiable in a way, you just have them as script logs. And I think I also agree with Les, and that's what I was telling to you in, well, private. It sounds to me like it would be very inefficient if every indexer has to run all the scripts in order to extract the metadata, although that could be worked out, I guess if we have a special maybe piece of metadata that identify those such transactions. So I don't know, a certain label if present, you know you have to execute script and extract the logs from it. So perhaps we can just bring it as a different CIP.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. But I think it does tackle the issue because it makes other person writing the contract the same person that owns the token metadata, because it's no longer going to be in the transaction metadata field. So it couples the two together, is what you wanted to solve the issue, right?

**Matthias** - :  So you mean that, ah, it's captured in the policy itself.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. Exactly, yeah.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah? Okay, okay. I guess then you could make the argument then.

**Sebastien** -:  I think this would solve this issue. So I feel like we could revisit this if we just come up with the solution for the logging problem, which requires us to come up with a sip for how to come handle topics for log statements, which doesn't have right now. And then another sip for how we want Cardano to change to make this efficient in some way, shape or form.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because the logging, we have it at a stage, but you only have it, I think, if the script is failing. So when the script is happily successful, I'm not sure you can get any trace really out of it. But yeah, I guess the first good step is a CIP, which might requires another CIP, which would be a new Plutus built-in for doing this topic centric logging.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. Which I think is the right solution because we could try matching a topic into the existing logging scheme, but it would be ugly. So probably it's better just come up with a new built in, come up with a solution to make it efficiently, and then we need some hassles [inaudible 00:10:52] developer to volunteer to do it, which is obviously the hardest part.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah. I think you're going to get a lot of pushback on the logging idea because as I was saying, Plutus is just one big expression right now, there is no statement or imperative execution. So, when do you put a statement and where do you evaluate a statement is up to the interpreter at this stage, even though everything is strict and it's pretty much, well, intuitive. That's probably getting in the way of low-level optimizations and stuff like that. If you start requiring stuff to be done in sequence, and to be able to rely on that as a contract writer, that might be tricky. Perhaps actually, Las also has some inputs on that because from working with Pluto / Plutarch, that's maybe something you also thought of. I'm not sure if you want to.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah, it don't necessarily mean to hijack the CIP meeting to discuss this, but definitely Les, if you have some thoughts on this, or if you wanted to take this offline after this call and discuss this, I'd be really interested because this is something that we want for a few different projects on our side, and I'm sure this would unlock some other stack or other use cases like this token metadata on chain registry.

**Matthias** - :  So sorry, I'm just writing on the chat. So yeah, let's just make a CIP offline discussions out of it for now and see. But yeah, I think my sentiment is that you would probably get some pushback from the Plutus core team because you're going to introduce side-effects.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. Yeah. We get pushback on every feature, so it's just part of it.

#### PR137
[PR137 CIP-0038? | On-Chain Token Metadata Standard](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/137)

**Matthias** - :  Yeah. It's part of the game, I guess. If you can argue it well enough, maybe, but yeah. Okay. So for this particular one, which was CIP 38, I think we can just park it for now on the side, meaning that we're still waiting for the author. And if the author is not willing to move it forward, we won't be doing it for him basically. So yeah, there has been a few things said already, it's all recorded on the pull request as comments. So yeah, next steps are up to the author, not us.

#### PR151
[PR151 CIP-0030? | Events API](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/151)

**Matthias** - :  Which brings us to the next one, CIP 30, which is, I guess in a similar situation. I think we talked about that one several times in the past. Also, it was initially part of CIP 30, it was then extracted when CIP 30 was merged because there were still ongoing discussions and people were not sure whether or not they wanted it. I think there are a few wallets now that supports events as part of, not about CIP 30, but as part of this wallets extension work. And there is, I think, even a website put by this is part, right, with the state of what people support through the extension, right? Some things are labeled as experimental and I recall there was something related to events in there.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. So we put the old event that Nami had on the initial release, which is slightly different than what's in the events API PR, because the events API PR takes what Nami had originally and adds just on top of it.

**Matthias** - :  So I'm just trying to find, okay, the website. Here is there just for linking it in the chats for people who wonder, so this is what I was mentioning ( https://www.cardano-caniuse.io/ ).

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. And I still think we should have some event scheme. It just hasn't been a priority for a new one, which is why the CIP stalled. I do think it's important to have it.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah, okay. So I guess when the need will arise again, that CIP will just be either resurrected or superseded by some other CIP. But at this stage, the proposal is pretty dormant and waiting for the author. So, also not much to talk about, I guess.

#### PR163
[PR163 CIP-0037? | Dynamic Saturation based on Pledge](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/163)

**M. Àngels** -:  I added these few PRs to the agenda because we have been waiting for the author for several months. So I was wondering what to do in these kind of cases that the authors do not respond.

**Matthias** - :  That's a good point. We could also close the PR after all, if there's some inactivity. People are still free to come back and ask to reopen them or comment on them saying, "Hey, I'm here. I have changes," or make a new PR, but I think it's not a big deal. But if we do that, I would also first, maybe mark it as a change in our CIP process, so make an update on, CIP 1, just say, "After X months of inactivity, we'll just close the Pull Request for keeping things tidy." That doesn't mean this proposal is rejected or anything, it just means it's inactive and we need to put some order on the repo.

**M. Àngels** -:  Do you think it's worth it to make that change on CIP 1?

**Matthias** - :  Yeah. I mean just making it in CIP 1 to be upfront saying, "This is what the process is," and at least people can also disagree with process as we change it, right, it's important, I think, to leave also the conversation open for that. But yeah, I would definitely say after, I don't know, four to six months of inactivity, which is quite a lot, we just close the Pull Request and people are free to come back with a new Pull Request if they still want to promote or propose their changes.

**M. Àngels** -:  I think it's good because in that way, we have a process and we don't need to revisit those proposals, and they are not waiting for the author forever.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah. Yeah. And we avoid having too many Pull Requests stacking up, which are just waiting for author.

**M. Àngels** -:  Mm-hmm.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah.

**M. Àngels** -:  Good. I think that might be another one in the same study, so we can just skip if...

**Matthias** - :  Which is the CIP 37, right?

**M. Àngels** -:  Yeah.

**Matthias** - :  Yes. Yes. Yes. So I guess we'll just leave it there for now. I will propose the small change to CIP 1, and yeah, we can redo it next week, I guess, fast track it a bit if people really disagree with that, but I don't think it's any big deal. We'll move forward. 

### Last Check

#### PR263
[PR263 CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/263)

**Matthias** - :So next is, last check, Cardano Smart NFTs. Yes, indeed. I guess same situation here. The author was a lot more reactive, but yeah. It was a few comments last week and I think the author still haven't got time to go through them, so we can just keep it for this week and put it again to last check next week.

**M. Àngels** -:  I have approached some marketplaces trying to get their input. So I think it's good as you mentioned to wait until the next meeting and see if we get feedback from them.

**Matthias** - :  Okay. Do you think maybe we can mention it on the Pull Request, all the marketplaces you've approached just to have a track record on the PR itself?

**M. Àngels** -:  Yeah. Do you want me to do it myself?

**Matthias** - :  Yeah, since you know who you've contacted.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay, cool. So I'll do that. I will add a comment after the call and mentioning the marketplace that had been approached.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah. And there was also a mention in the newsletter, I think Robert pointed that out on the PR. On IOG newsletter, there was a mention of two CIPs if I recall correctly, there was this one.

**M. Àngels** -:  Yes. He added the link in a comment.


**Matthias** - :  Yeah, added the link, exactly. CIP 44 and CIP 54 were mentioned, that are touching CIP marketplaces or NFTs. 

#### PR220
[PR220 CCIP-0381? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/220)

Yeah, okay. Next one, the pairing support over BLS 381, which we discussed a bit last week. And yeah, it was discussed with the Plutus' team, reviewed, adjusted many times. So yeah. So maybe the only thing is to see if the status shouldn't be changed to propose perhaps, I think it has reached a maturing of stage to be proposed now. So I will ask Nigo if he can do that. Yeah, and it has also just renamed the file to readme. So okay, beside a few minority editorial work, this one should be ready to go. So I will just comment directly. Okay. And I think... Okay, any comment on that one? No? Yes. I think we discussed it extensively last week already. 

### Review 

#### PR226
[PR226 CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/226)

**Matthias** - :Okay. So CIP 44 is next, and is also one we are waiting for NFT marketplaces feedback. Well, at least it is the main one.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. I think the message asking for feedback was sent out a day or two, right? So I think we're still waiting.

**Matthias** - :  So there's probably not much to do today on this one. Yeah. As we said last week, the ID looks good overall, but we had the question on whether or not this is useful for NFT marketplaces or endorsed by NFT marketplaces because it has to in order to become active. So we better include them early on in the feedback loop before merging or yeah, going with the proposed CIP. 


#### PR242
[PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update weekly update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**Matthias** - :So I guess we can just move to the next and last one on the agenda. Our favorite, CIP 50. I haven't got time to go through all the comments since last week, there has been a lot discussed. Again, there is a new member, I would say, in the discussions now, Robert, who is a mathematician working at Tesla, from what I got, who has got an interest in the CIP. So there has been quite a bunch of conversations between yeah, Rob and Michael, fortunately on GitHub this time, on the GitHub issue. We also have created a Discord channel for that one as we've been discussing last week, so a few more discussions have been going on here as well.

**Matthias** - :  And I've also spoken to Kevin Hammond from IOG last Saturday actually, about again, trying to get back the researchers from IOG into the conversation. So Kevin was quite surprised actually that this didn't happen because, to quote him, "Usually researchers are quite happy to provide feedback on their work if given the opportunity." So he's going to change that a bit and see if people can actually get into this study group that we've been trying to push up last time already, yeah, and get that moving. So I've put that in his hands so far. With the Vasil out of the way now, he has a bit more availability to pursue that on the IOG side, so yeah, fingers crossed and we'll see, I guess in the next biweekly, if this has lead to anything. I should also probably mention that on the CIP PR itself so that people who are currently discussing are also aware, and then maybe up to the author to see who he wants to include in the conversation from his side as well.

**Matthias** - :  Yeah. So beyond that, I haven't gone through all the comments. We could go through the comments as part of this current biweekly as well, since we have a bit of time left, or we could leave that for another time and try to do again a summary of the conversation that had been happening. Any thoughts on that?

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. For this one, I feel like the summaries are nice, but I feel this one needs more than just a summary.

**Matthias** - :  Of course. And as I said last time, I think this one can only move forward. At some point with regards the participation of IOG research. Without that, I'd say it's very difficult for that proposal to make concrete steps. And yeah, we have, I think two, yeah, Christopher and Colette. I think you are here both of you probably for the CIP 50, so maybe you have all sorts of stuff you want to discuss or say, please bring them up. Yeah, so I guess same situation for everyone. So I don't really have anything to add mainly in this call. We're talking about safety process in general, okay. And okay, so both of you. So is there any other items then we could discuss today before we wrap it up on maybe CIP 58? I don't think we have talked about that one yet. It was proposed and then proposed again in a new format, I think. So it's not from the same author, but it's from the same team as far as I understood, so it's superseding the previous proposal. So the first proposal was... Where it is? I'd lost it now.

**Matthias** - :  Okay, it was PR number 268 and the second proposal was PR 283, which is a new Plutus set of built-ins about doing bitwise operations in Plutus. So manipulations on bits, which is quite common to do on low level stuff. It's been missing from Plutus so far, there is very no support from manipulating byte strings in general and doing bitwise operations in Plutus. Although it can be quite interesting because of the, well, performance aspect it can also bring in the picture. So it's a bit risky these things usually. So I haven't gone through the proposal yet, but I hope that it's introducing a somewhat safe API for doing bitwise operations and not allow people to shoot themselves in the foot with this stuff. I see it's proposed by the MLab's team and it has also been discussed with the Plutus team quite extensively, it seems. So this doesn't come out of the blue basically. So I think it'll be good to have it for review next time so that we get some good time to go through it, have a few comments and re-bring the spotlight to it on the next biweekly.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. Makes sense to me.

**Matthias** - :  And we can maybe do a bit of PR management at the same time and see if we can close the first one. I will just comment on this directly. It's marked as legacy deprecated already. Yeah. And Robert actually already commented on that. Okay, anything else? I see there is a small one, maybe PR number 275, sorry, which is just updating line numbers and this time, putting an actual permalink link in CIP 8, which I think is good. So initially, it was just updating line numbers, I think, but then Robert rightfully asked to just put a permalink link in there so that we don't get to update that line number every week. So 

**Sebastien** -, that's probably something also you would have a minor comment on. I'm not sure if you are still involved with the CSL anymore, or if you are fully switched to the multi-platform library.

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. I haven't touched CSL for a long time. Yeah, for the comment related to WebPull, I don't know of a good alternative website that allows you to run WebAssembly in the browser for free. WebPull is the one of the few that did it, but I feel like now that WebAssembly is more common, there might be other platforms that work better.

**Matthias** - :  Because a rep needs to be paid by an owner?

**Sebastien** -:  Yeah. So it used to be free and then they changed it to paid, which is why it all links up probably.

**Matthias** - :  Okay. So at the same time, it's also filled to the current PR, so perhaps that's one good use of an issue. That's the other rep link, it doesn't work anymore, fine. But at least this PR fixes already a dead link, which is good in itself, which is comment to that actually. Okay. Nope, doesn't work. So I will open an issue following that. And where is actually the comment about rep link? Here. Rep link eight. So rep eight link doesn't work more. Okay. So this one is done. Do we have any small PR like that or should we just wrap it up for today? Or anything else people want to bring forward? Nope? Oh sorry, I've got a phone call. Okay, sorry about that. 

### Discussions
N/A

### Issues
N/A

### Close 

So let's wrap it up, maybe?

**Matthias** - :  So we went through CIP 59 today, the terminology that runs core features. We agreed to merge it as active, as it is informal CIP bringing clarity on naming and coming from the core team directly. Then we've looked at CIP 38, CIP 30, CIP 37, I think that's the only three ones, which are waiting for an update from their authors. We discussed that for those CIPs that have been idle and dormant for a few months, it might be good actually to just close the Pull Requests and well, let the authors come back with either a new Pull Request or an update if they do. But before doing that or in parallel of doing that, also specify that, "In the CIP 1, as a small change or in the process," so that we are upfront with what's going to happen. And it'll help us keep the repository tidy.

**Matthias** - :  Then we discussed CIP 54 and 44, which are two CIPs about, one is smart NFTs and the second one is additional factor of verification for NFT marketplaces. In both cases, we have reached out to the community and to marketplaces in Cardano to get their feedback on it. So we've reach out to the community through the IOG newsletters, and we've reached out directly to the marketplaces to see if we can get any buy-in from them. Discussed CIP 381. This one, mostly mature to be now merged as a proposed CIP. There was two minor editor changes to be done, first, just renaming a file as readme.md and changing the status to proposed. So we've pinged the author on GitHub, once done, we can move forward and merge that one. And the path to active will be the implementation in Plutus by the Plutus team and the delivery through probably another Hard Fork. I'm not sure if this one occurs at Hard Fork though, might not be, but anyway.

**Matthias** - :  We discussed then also briefly CIP 50. There has been many comments done between last week and this week, and basically no one really had time to go through them, so we'll discuss it again. In the meantime, we've reached out again to our IOG research hoping that they will be joining the conversation so that we can move forward that whole conversation with them. Then we briefly touched on CIP 58 that we want to bring to review for the next biweekly meeting. It's also a subject to primitive for Bitwise manipulation and a bit more of binary manipulations on Plutus, and I think a few other minor things like broken links and yeah, small additions. That's about it, unless I forgot something.

**M. Àngels** -:  I think it's everything.

**Matthias** - :  Mm-hmm.

**M. Àngels** -:  Thank you very much to all the attendance. Next meeting is going to be held in two weeks, July 19 at half past eight AM UTC. Here in this court, you have the events, this is the next event. And today I am going to upload the following one so you can plan in advance. Thank you very much and see you in the next meeting. Bye-bye.

**Matthias** - :  Thank you.

**Sebastien** -:  Bye guys.

---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About

