**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [August 16 2022 Transcript](#august-16-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [CIP-0051? | Preserve submitter's ordering of transaction inputs](#pr231)
    + [CIP-0048? | Extended 721 metadata](#pr249)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [CIP-0030 | Added walletExperimentalApiVersion](#pr225)
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP-0045? | Decentralization: Using Pledge as a Bidding Param](#pr229)
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](#pr242)     
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
    + [CIP-0068? | Datum Metadata Standard](#pr299)
    + [CIP-0066? | NFT Identity](#pr294)
    + [CIP-0060? | Music Token Metadata](#pr307)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 16/08/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significance to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## August 16 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Frederic Johnson~, Robert Phair. 
**Guests**: Christophe Garant, Michael Liesenfelt, Andrew Westberg, Alessandro Konrad, Thomas Vellekoop

### Triage

#### PR231
[PR231 CIP-0051? | Preserve submitter's ordering of transaction inputs](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/231)

A technical issue resulted in this discussion not being recorded. Please review the CIP summary under Close. Apologise for any inconvenience caused. 

#### PR249
[PR249 CCIP-0048? | Extended 721 metadata](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/249)

A technical issue resulted in this discussion not being recorded. Please review the CIP summary under Close. Apologise for any inconvenience caused.

### Last Check

#### PR225
[PR225 CIP-0030 | Added walletExperimentalApiVersion](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/225)

A technical issue resulted in this discussion not being recorded. Please review the CIP summary under Close. Apologise for any inconvenience caused. 

### Review 

#### PR229
[PR229 CIP-0045? | Decentralization: Using Pledge as a Bidding Param](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/229)

**Matthias** -: CIP 45 seems to incentivize pools to create, oh sorry, stake pool operators to create many, many pools by giving them an optimal pledge to follow and is wrongly making the assumptions that one pool equals one individual. Whereas in practice, we know that to be untrue, there are several groups that are run by single individuals, and therefore many of the assumptions of the rationale from that CIP crumbles a bit from that. So I haven't read yet through the comments that the author has made on that, but it seems that those points are being considered at least.

**Matthias** -: There are also a few suggestions purely on the form itself, mainly that this, the CIP contains quite a lot of equations and visualizations, which are so far linked through an external Google drive as images. So I suggested the author to actually use the new latest support from GitHub that landed some months ago to actually display equations directly in GitHub, or at least to use an image, but hosted next to the CIP itself, that will simplify a bit. And the author has acknowledged those points and said it would be working on updating that according to the suggestions. So some more to come, I guess.

**Robert Phair** -: As far as using the equations in CIPs and in GitHub content, the difficulty they ran into with another CIP 50, did they ever work out the presentation of LaTeX type equations on the mobile platform? Someone said they weren't working.

**Matthias** -: So there is only Christophe on the chat commenting that. Yeah, they have done equations on GitHub, prone to some issues as you learn from CIP 50. So you are saying it's specifically on a mobile device, that it is not supported yet?

**Robert Phair** -: That's what I think Christophe was saying.

**Matthias** -: Which is probably okay. I mean, if you are reading a CIP of that magnitude on a mobile that's, I mean, you're pretty brave I would say.

**Robert Phair** -: I get it. I hadn't thought of it that way. They could go back to the original form if they want to see that kind of detail in the equations.

**Matthias** -: Probably, it looks good in VS Code and Jupyter Notebooks, says Christophe. But then in GitHub, some stuff can't render, I guess. And it does not render on mobile. I can't speak if, yeah, not, actually, since you are here, it'll be faster than just writing on the chat. Can we just unmute you. Yes, it's done.

**Christophe** -: Can you guys hear me?

**Robert Phair** -: Yes. Hello?

**Christophe** -: Oh, Hey everybody. Yeah. So as I learned in CIP 50, yeah, the mobile definitely doesn't render, but then there's some brackets, especially curly brackets that doesn't render on GitHub even on desktop. So that's why we reverted back to basically screenshot equations from external source. Pictures.

**Matthias** -: Is it a problem from GitHub specifically, or is it MathJax in general that is just-

**Christophe** -: No it's specifically GitHub and I did some digging and I don't know, I guess the layman's interpretation, it was something with like Java... Sorry, I just got a call. JavaScript rendering on the website itself with GitHub. And there were some conflicts and it seems like a mess, but it'll look good in VS Code and even Jupyter Notebooks and just regular [inaudible 00:04:25] it's fine. But when it's in GitHub README, it breaks. So you have to add some extra back slashes and curly brackets and yeah, we eventually just reverted back. For simpler equations, it is probably okay. But for more complex things, it breaks it seems.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Yeah. I mean, it's a brand new feature, so that's not yet fully ready I imagine. Although it was shipped, but yeah. Okay. I think the equations in CIP 45 are a bit simpler than those on CIP50 or at least I was able to render some of them quite easily, but I haven't tried to render all of them, arguably. So there are some more complex equations below after that.

**Christophe** -: Yeah. If it works great, but yeah, just be prepared to check.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Okay. Is, by the way, do you or, and I see we have also Michael here, have any comments on CIP45? More on the content of the proposal and how it reflects to CIP 50. There is some kind of overlap, but it's definitely taking a slightly different route or at least just focusing on the pledge parameter here.

**Christophe** -: I personally haven't reviewed it, but now I will. I wasn't that aware of it so...

**Matthias** -: Good. That's why we have the meetings then.

**Christophe** -: But I'll do that.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Maybe we can move it to review for the next meeting again, just to let people have time to go through the content. It's quite, I mean, the overall idea is quite simple, but the details as always, right, the complexity lies in the details and some of the equations are not quite obvious. So it takes a bit of effort to process.

**Robert Phair** -: Michael, this is a time one that I got you to chime in on the forum about, you made a comment there. So I think it is one of the ones that you've seen.

**Michael** -: The notes. I was looking at a couple of those and there was that I believe it's CIP 37, this one, 45 and I guess 50, that is all with pledge and the centralization metrics is concerned. It's very, well, it's hard to go through you, you'd expect so. [inaudible 00:07:03] so I don't know, I wish I could give us [inaudible 00:07:04] and maybe there's a way that we can bundle them, simpler path to a review. I don't remember its particularities on the whole.

**Matthias** -: The way I see it currently is, we have CIP 50, where most of the [inaudible 00:07:22] discussion really happens, which is probably the most structured of all those proposals that we have at least in terms of the [inaudible 00:07:30] operations, if I can say, or how the feedback is incorporated in the CIP. So all those other CIPs that are kind of overlapping, but not exactly the same, are they think the same issues as CIP 50, I think they should be part of the same discussions because they all have a similar set of assumptions. And they all have a similar set of outcomes. The question is now, which one are we going to adopt in the end? So if there is a more generic discussion happening on this decentralization concern, we want an incentive on [inaudible 00:08:07]. I think it's best driven from CIP 50 and includes feedback or update from all those other side proposals that happened.

**Matthias** -: I think this is a bit what Michael is also saying in the chats, by saying "I've included CIP 45 in the CIP 50 references since the first draft". And I think it's good to keep that as part of this, the discussions, because in a way it's part of the whole same discussions. And as we are now trying to get more and more attention from IOG research, I mean, we're not going to have that discussion five times, one for each of those CIPs, but probably once and for all, at least for the next proposal to come and see which direction we take.

**Robert Phair** -: I've also suggested to the CIP 45 author that he come into the discord on the CIP 50 channel, and to review what's already happened and to explain to others that have been following the issue for their issue, how his presentation is different and similar.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, so perhaps that's also kind of, I don't know, part of CIP 50 rationale section, they have a kind of alternatives considered and list a bit of the pro and cons of those various other CIPs and why maybe what was taken from them, what was rejected from them for which reason, because it might actually also have discussions and having one place to centralize all the results there might help too.

**Robert Phair** -: Just quickly. Might there be a benefit to changing the name of the PR 242 discord channel to decentralizations DIPs to encourage a more general discussion like that?

**Matthias** -: Perhaps, but then I would suggest more rewards and incentive rework because I mean, decentralization is of a consequence of that, but this is really about reworking the rewards and incentives of Cardano and how do we currently define stake polls, rewards and all of that?

**Robert Phair** -: Yes.

**Matthias** -: Any comment on those points? Is that no?

**Robert Phair** -: You saw when you, at the [inaudible 00:10:43] when you looked over that there was a suggestion that the MAC addresses on the machine might be considered relevant to the point of CIP 45. And I've suggested that maybe that should be moved off to the Cardano forum and kept out of this CIP 45 discussion on GitHub. I believe it's irrelevant to the CIP as stated and, I think the rationale for doing that is not correct.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I need to read through that comment a bit more in detail.

**Robert Phair** -: Anything regarding the MAC addresses and how the MAC address could be used to further the ambitions of that CIP I think can be skipped over in considering the CIP. It's been a digression.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So let's have it on the next biweekly that would give people some more time to go through it and hopefully a bit of time for the author to address some of the points that we mentioned. Okay. No comments. So moving to the next one. So we have CIP 50 on review here, but I would like to jump actually on CIP 68 and CIP 66 first, since we've been talking about CIP 50 for pretty much every past meetings. And I would like maybe to keep it for the end more as a closure kind of discussion if people are okay with that.

**Anthony Meyer** -: Yeah. That works for me.

**Robert Phair** -: That's fine.

#### PR242
[PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**Matthias** -: Or US friendly. So, okay. I want to keep some time for CIP 50 as we discussed initially. So maybe Michael, if you're still around and want to give us a short update on progress on that side, there was a discussions with Argulus that happened last week. If I recall correctly in the SPO call. So maybe some news on that. You should be able to speak. But I can't hear you.

**Anthony Meyer** -:I'm also still not hearing Michael. Is it only me?

**Matthias** -: No. Okay. So there is no one speaking, right? I see Michael keeps unmuting himself, but we can't hear you somehow. I thought it might just be me, but no.

**Anthony Meyer** -: No, I'm also not hearing him. 

**Matthias** -: Christophe is also unmuted. If you also maybe have some info on that. So he rejoined and we still can't hear you. Nope. Well, that's unfortunate too, I'm not seeing any Michael. Michael is in chat. You don't see him? He's in the list.

**Anthony Meyer** -: I did see Michael at the start of this call.

**Matthias** -: I'm failing on audio. Yeah, we can see that. So I don't know if Christophe maybe wants to give us that shorter bit. I think you've both chatting on that. Okay. Or we can leave it for next time or has it written a update maybe? On the meeting windows app. Yeah.

**Christophe** -: I guess I, can you guys hear me?

**Anthony Meyer** -: Yes.

**Matthias** -: Yes, we can hear you.

**Christophe** -: Thanks, Michael can't speak, but I guess I just put on, I just updated a pull request on the rank leverage based ranking recommendation last night, which we've removed a grading system to kind of be a little bit more objective. So it's just kind of a 10 is the best and then zero is the worst kind of recommendation, but again, it's just a recommendation, not actually core to it.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So, well let's maybe keep room for CIP 50 at the beginning of the next meeting next time to make sure we got time to discuss it and maybe resolve geo problems during the call. I will also try to maybe just post the summary of, again, the conversation that happened on this calls. I haven't been keeping track of that lately, but bit of things have been said, and yeah, so I wasn't part of the SPO call with Argulus, and I would have been curious to just hear what was said. I'm not sure if it was recorded or not. That's cool. Probably not. They are not usually recorded. But anyway, so it's time. 

### Discussions

#### PR299
[PR299 CIP-0068? | Datum Metadata Standard](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/299)

**Matthias** -: Okay. So let's have it on the next biweekly that would give people some more time to go through it and hopefully a bit of time for the author to address some of the points that we mentioned. Okay. No comments. So moving to the next one. So we have CIP 50 on review here, but I would like to jump actually on CIP 68 and CIP 66 first, since we've been talking about CIP 50 for pretty much every past meetings. And I would like maybe to keep it for the end more as a closure kind of discussion if people are okay with that.

**Matthias** -: Okay. I see one thumbs up in the chat, two thumbs up in the chat. So CIP 68, which is also a big peace to be discussed. Wait, wait, can I click on that? Anthony, do you think you can bring that one on screen, on the stream?

**Matthias** -: Yeah. Great. So, yeah, I also been through that one today, made quite a few comments and I try to summarize some of the discussion that happened between people. There has been mainly three discussions tracks, as far as I could tell. One between kind of Michael and Alessandro on the metadata spoofing that is currently possible with CIP 25 and how this is still possible with CIP 68, but far less likely. And so discussing possible alternatives or how to mitigate that, or make it even less likely to happen. There has been another conversation discussing the costs, more of that CIP since in this proposal, there is an implied creation of UTXOs.

**Matthias** -: So the core idea is to have, per token two different UTXOs, one capturing the actual asset and one carrying the metadata of that asset, evolving on two separate track, which means that compared to the current approach, there is an extra UTXO being generated that incurs obviously ada deposits and additional costs. So that was being discussed and it'll be nice to have numbers on that maybe, just as a kind of high level analysis and finally, a third discussion on whether or not to store the data on chain as CIP 68 suggests, or do it more like in an option manual, like CIP 54. And in particular, there was quite some disagreement about whether or not CIP 25 should be deprecated in favor of that one. And I think this is a completely separate discussion. So there is a new proposal that offers an alternative to CIP 25 and next to that, there will need be a discussion on whether or not CIP 25 should be deprecated and rendered obsolete. Even though there are now 5+ million tokens that have been minted under CIP 25, despite all the flaws. So yeah, that was more for discussions.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah, so [inaudible 00:15:32].


**Sebastien Guillemot** -: So my summary of CIP 68, I do not think there's anything technically wrong with the proposal. And I think most of the discussion around the CIP is not so much, well not there's anything technically wrong with the proposal. It's mostly discussion about whether or not people think that this standard will get adoption, which is a fine discussion to have, especially because people, their point of view may, I'll clear the specification itself. But I feel like we're at a point with CIP 68 where I would feel comfortable to say that this looks like it, if nothing comes up in the next, two weeks, we can move this to a draft standard and then set some sort of adoption requirements to mark this as active.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: If, we say this is technically correct, and nobody's really discussing the technical aspects of this anymore and then it ends up that's [inaudible 00:16:46] is the only project that adopts it, then okay, it just stays as draft forever and never got adoption and that's a fine result. If, people end up bringing this and then decide it's worth whatever trade offs that are involved and gain adoption that we can mark it as active. But I think, the discussion about deprecating CIP 25 for discussions around adoption, I think are a separate discussion of the technical correctness of this spec. And I think at this point we're kind of past the technical correctness stage, is my thoughts on this, but I'm open to hearing what other people think.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I pretty much agree on that from the technical point of view. So I came quite late in the conversation and really just read for the CIP today and beyond a few minor things. I didn't really spot anything technically wrong. I think I made a few suggestions regarding at least the "implicitness" of some privileged labels. Just assuming that some asset labels are blessed and always implicitly present in that CIP since there is this whole registry concept now. I think it would be better to just go for generic and I have also the CIP itself embraced this history for self-defining itself and possibly future evolutions. But yeah, beyond that, indeed. And-

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah, I noticed here as well, he's under here as well if he wants to comment anything.

**Matthias** -: That's what I was about to ask. Yes. We have a list on also. Let's unmute. You can now speak. Yeah.

**Alessandro Konrad** -: Can you hear me?

**Matthias** -: Yes.

**Alessandro Konrad** -: Okay, great. So first of all, regarding CIP 68 versus CIP 25, the thing is that CIP 68 is defining a more generalized metadata standard for any token. And this is pretty much overseeing because anyone who is commenting on costs is mostly referring to NFT drops. If I meant NFT, the costs are pretty much not there. They are irrelevant. It's really only for NFTs. But the thing is that these costs are, if you implement the amending policy, I would say correctly, the costs are temporarily because you could implement native burning mechanism and then redeem the data at some point, if the NFT is getting worthless. So I think, I don't know if this is, yeah, really a cost then, and CIP 68 kind of forces you to make use of Plutus and I think everyone who is using CIP 25 is making use of very simple native scripts, just the time locking policy.

**Alessandro Konrad** -: And over time, these NFTs are completely locked. There's no way to burn them. So I don't think that's great either because, yeah, I'm pretty sure from all of the five million assets, 90% will probably get worthless over time. I don't know. But these assets are simply then, yeah. [inaudible 00:20:52] simply locked forever and with CIP 68, we could get rid of this because people are more or have to get more into Plutus and then they realize, well, we could actually have some kind of native burning mechanism and redeem the data again because maybe over time we will have less and less data in total supply.

**Matthias** -: Sounds, this could even be framed that way perhaps more clearly on the motivations behind the CIP. What is revealed on the table is this programmability of NFTs. If you don't need that, then CIP 25 is probably a good fit because of its adoption and despite its other problems. But if you need programmability, if you want to be able to manipulate either NFTs or just need metadata access within the script, then that is a sound standard for that. So perhaps, yeah. I don't know, frame it bit more like it, indeed, like you said, right? A generic standard on metadata storing and NFT being one possible component of that, but perhaps not the main use case either.

**Alessandro Konrad** -: Yeah.

**Matthias** -: We have a lot of activities in the chats and maybe it would be worth to bring some of those people on the vocal. So we have Andrew saying: "I agree, technically, correct. I wouldn't want to deprecate CIP 25 though. NEWM is using CIP 25 to mint NFT". Thomas: "disclaimer, you do not need to use produce native script can also be used for the CIP". Phillip saying: "I also agree, but forcing people to learn a new standard is not the right way, I think". Okay. Andrew: "producer's minting/burning with an unlock policy while guaranteeing that they are true NFTs, non fungible", and finally Thomas: "this CIP perfectly allows you to pre-mint assets as a creator and later distribute them with native scripts." Should we bring a few people on the vocal maybe to discuss that a bit more?

**Matthias** -: So I would love that then. Andrew, if you [inaudible 00:23:23].

**Alessandro Konrad** -: Yeah. Maybe Thomas because he's the other author.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So Thomas and Andrew, you can unmute yourself if you want to speak, if you don't want to speak, well stay mute.

**Thomas** -: Hi, nice to meet you all. I'm Thomas the other author of this CIP. Yeah. So I think this CIP doesn't force you to use Plutus, but it allows you to use Plutus and fully use it. So as I said, you can pre mint these assets by yourself and then distribute the reference NFTs to a script that you like, you can lock them indefinitely, you can lock them, yeah. And at any address you would like, this here doesn't specify that. But what it does, it allows you to mint with Plutus and that opens a lot of doors. So that...

**Andrew** -: Yeah, I would agree overall I like the CIP. I think it allows for programmability when the NFT requires programmability, but I do like the simplicity of CIP 25. So what we're doing on my new project is we are using Plutus to mint, but we're not following this CIP 68 because we don't need all of those. All of that complexity, all we need Putus for is just to have this continually unlocked policy while at the same time, guaranteeing that you can't reinvent the same NFT twice. So that's what Putus gives us there. So it's basically unlocked policy forever guaranteeing that everything you spit out of that is a true NFT. But I do like that CIP 25 is very simple because we don't have very complex needs as far as programmability I guess.

**Thomas**-: If I can comment on that, I think, I agree with you and I think both CIPs will exist alongside each other, but I think perhaps in the future, when more tools are built for CIP 68, so that it's easier to mint, things are predefined. You can just copy stuff from other people that went before, that this barrier that you're describing will be lowered. So I don't see it as a problem in the future.

**Andrew**-: The new Plutus scripts are all open source. So people could use that as well. If you wanted to have an NFT that has an always open policy, you can always mint more, but then they'll still be guaranteed to be NFTs that you can't do with a simple script.

**Matthias** -: Okay. So I would suggest more concretely to move the proposal maybe to last check for the next call. And as Sebastian was suggesting, so merge it as draft or even proposed I think, in the sense that modulo a few minor points raised today, the proposal is probably already in a shape that is close to final and as soon as we get some adoptions from wallets, market places and the like, move it to active, right? Once we have reference implementations and perhaps a few tools around that.

**Thomas** -: Can I mention, I like the idea of that and what I still want to discuss about the CIP and, well, it was mentioned in the discussions as well, get up, we use this label and this is to distinct tokens that use this CIP and who don't, but this is arbitrary. And I think it'll be good to have a discussion about what a good label should be and so first we came up with these brackets and I think these are bad from the discussions that we get and then we mentioned the new bite and other things, but I think that is something that's still open or at least, yeah, we have a proposal, but I would like to hear others about it, what they find important there.

**Matthias** -: Wouldn't that be a discussions more for CIP 67? Which is proposing this asset name, label or history.

**Thomas** -: That's true. That's true. Yeah.

**Matthias** -: So yeah, perhaps we can have it in the next agenda for next time and make sure that the question is sent out before that. So have a call for comments or call for feedback on that particular CIP 67, expressing the question that's basically there. That would be interesting and collect then the feedback on the next bi-weekly meeting.

**Thomas** -: Sounds good.

#### PR294
[PR294 CIP-0066? | NFT Identity](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/294)

**Matthias** -: Okay. So jumping to the other metadata proposal we have, which is CIP 66 on NFT identity. We wanted to discuss a bit of, I mean, both because I think it was Sebastian two weeks ago that mentioned there might be some overlap between the two. I've been through CIP 66 today and so it's naturally overlapping as far as I could say, but I could definitely see CIP 66 use or make use of CIP 68 to define this identity standard. So the thing I pointed out on CIP 66 is mainly that it's still relying on the same, or it seems to be relying on the same principle as CIP 25. And therefore in there is the same flows as for who is really minting the token and who is providing metadata. And should it just be always the same person? Apparently yes or implicitly, yes because of how the proposal is defined, which has further complications.

**Robert Phair** -: Is the title of the CIP specific enough for people to understand what it's really about?

**Matthias** -: Yeah.

**Robert Phair** -: There was some other suggestions just like maybe NFT verification or verifier identity, if that's what it, in terms of its function or maybe NFT collection, or I thought maybe issuer identity, if it's who is doing it.

**Matthias** -: From what I've grasped also from that proposal, it's mainly about taking the W3C recommendations for the DID standards that came out recently and kind of embed that in transaction with that data on Cardano. So, I mean, that is then very, very specific to the W3C recommendations. And I think the title should maybe mentioned that explicitly that this is a kind of card integration for this particular [inaudible 00:31:28].

**Robert Phair** -: Something like NFT DID. Or-

**Matthias** -: Yeah. NFT DIDs W3C recommendation integration, or maybe it's a bit too verbal, I don't know [inaudible 00:31:42] but it's, from the specification standpoint, it's also very rough on the edges, I would say, and refers a lot to the specifications on the W3C recommendations. It's basically the same, just adapting the format and putting it on kind of metadata. So in that sense, right, it's really just a wrapping CIP; that is wrapping another existing specification and translating the format from Json to [inaudible 00:32:15] somehow, which is also specified at this stage. So-

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah, my comment about the similarity is that basically, so in CIP 66, you basically have two levels of indirection implementing, whereas in CIP 68, there's only one level of indirection. And with the two levels of indirection, you don't need this kind of asset name stuffing with the brackets and everything, all that goes away. So it's kind of different ideas for how you can go about this. I understand this is not the main innovation that CIP 66 was attempting to bring, which is why they didn't elaborate at all. But their core concept, as you mentioned, would not be compatible with CIP 68 because they went with a double layering direction. So it would be nice if somebody proposed a alternative to CIP 68 that uses a double layer of indirection solution, which as a entirely personal opinion is I think the better approach. But that was just the rationale for that comment.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Is there any more comments on that one actually? Yes Thomas.

**Robert Phair** -: Have Thomas. Yeah.

**Matthias** -: You are now unmute.

**Thomas** -: So that's end. Thanks for that. Could you specify more how you mean by these two layers, any improvement to our CIP is welcome so, but I didn't follow it quite clearly, what you meant with that.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah, so basically the way that CIP 68 works is that you have the asset names define the different categories of the assets or the different use cases rather, right? So for a specific name, you have specific utility that this name encodes, whereas the second layer of direction, you basically have a minting policy that will be in charge of other minting policies and these other minting policies are than what name based the split functionality.

**Thomas** -: Okay. Thank you for clarifying. Yeah, I get it.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. So you have two minting policies instead of a single minting policy, you have next to [inaudible 00:35:05] direction.

**Thomas** -: Yeah. I think this processes a bit with an image shared in our CIP as well, that Alisandro made when we proposed this, the CIP doesn't specify this because you don't have to, but you could do it. Yeah.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: So it would be nice if we had a CIP standard where we did not right away out of the gate, have it, do it standard, come out and not be compatible with it, but baring that discussion, which is kind of tangential. I don't see any problem with CIP 66 as it is from a technical perspective.

**Matthias** -: Well, I do see a few, but I've commented that on the proposal, especially the fact that it seems to narrate the same flows as CIP 25, which seems highly undesirable for something like this, where you would want perhaps to enforce an additional layer of security or make sure that it's not that easy to spoof someone else's identity. Plus, yeah, a bit like some remarks we made on previous CIPs that, it feels a bit rushed on the writing. There were many examples, but not so much details on the specifications and how you should interpret this or that particular scenarios. So yeah. I'm happy to have this [inaudible 00:36:50].

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. Which is why I feel like this CIP would've been better had it been something more like CIP 68's approach where they had a CIP that just defines this double indirections scheme up, the scheme they came up with and then made their NFT I think CIP reference saying this word, generic CIP.

**Matthias** -: Would you mind maybe commenting on that? I mean, on the core request itself.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. That's what my comment was supposed to indicate, but I think maybe I wasn't clear enough and maybe people got confused.

#### PR307
[PR307 CIP-0060? | Music Token Metadata](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/307)

**Matthias** -: So, okay. Let's keep it on the agenda for review for the next meeting. And since we have 10 minutes left, let's quickly go through the CIP 60, which on my end, I'm a bit, sorry. That's the only one I haven't got really time to go through today. So since we have Andrew, I'm happy if you can give us a small introduction on that and yeah, just let's have a bit of a chat on it. You are probably muted. Yes. Now you can.

**Andrew** -: Okay. Yep. I can speak now. Yeah. So CIP 60 came about because of there was a lot of, the standard for visual NFT metadata is very well defined in CIP 25. It's kind of geared towards that. It allows music and audio in the files section on CIP 25. But what we needed is more metadata for things like players or wallets that wanted to play music NFTs in a nice format and display all the necessary information like who the various artists are, publishers, et cetera, all the information that's really needed in a music player. And so that's what this CIP is designed to do, is just kind of define some structure extend CIP 25 with a well defined structure for something that is a music NFT, so that wallets and aggregators, and everybody can build players for the music that's in people's wallets. This was in collaboration with I think maybe 10 to 20 different individuals who are all building music type businesses on Cardano.

**Andrew** -: And so we had a lot of input as to what fields were absolutely required. And so that's kind of how the CIP is broken up, is there's required fields and then there's kind of optional fields for defining what it looks like and then players, of course, they can make sure they implement it minimum, all the required fields for playing the music. And then, it again is still an open standard, so if certain music projects will add additional functionality on top of this, but it, again, doesn't need to be specified in the CIP. This is very specifically just so people can have the bare minimum to know that, yes, this is the music NFT and here's how you can play the music inside of it.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. I think for this CIP, we could try and bike shed on the specific fields, but I think this probably will not be super useful on this versioning to help with this anyway. So I think from this one, the tricky part will be trying to measure how much backing the CIP has but as you mentioned, this was then a combination with a few projects, so it'd be good if these projects [inaudible 00:41:11].

**Andrew** -: : Most of them are all signed, to contributors.

**Sebastien Guillemot** -: Yeah. So I know they're all the authors, but it'd be good if they just, being just like, oh yes we're actually using this for real project of some kind. Or if you had a wallet, I know [inaudible 00:41:26] wallet included music NFTs in their wallet. So maybe it'd be good to have them.

**Andrew** -: Yeah. So they're actually one of the people that is involved with this. So maybe if we can get them to comment on it, I'll talk to them about that.

**Matthias** -: And this is something I would love to see in the rationale section as well. Exactly what you just explained. This is a collaborative effort between actual people building with, in the music industry, on, kind of, i don't know, the blockchain in general and that's also why we justifying some of the choices that have been made.
**Andrew** -: Okay.

**Matthias** -: That just gives a bit of context on where the decision comes from in the legitimacy of that.

**Andrew** -: Okay.

**Matthias** -: From a technical standpoint, just to clarify things, this is proposing to extend the on chain with the data and the set of fields that is provided alongside current NFTs from the CIP 25 right?

**Andrew** -: That's correct. It supports CIP 25 version one and version two.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Then should we maybe move it to last check for the next goal provided that this was already discussed with a few?

**Andrew** -: Yeah. We've had several two hour meetings with people. There was 20 different groups in the room, either producing music on Cardano or representing wallets or players or things like that. So yeah, I will add to the rationale section before next meeting that this comes up.

**Matthias** -: Okay. Thanks.

**Andrew** -: Probably not next meeting, but maybe the meeting after, because the next meeting is always in the times I can't be at.

**Matthias** -: You're right. So let's keep that in for the US based next meeting.

**Andrew** -: Yep, thank you.


### Issues
N/A

### Close 

**Matthias** -: So let's just wrap up quickly on what we just discussed. We've been through CIP 51 at the beginning, which we agreed to rediscuss, bring back on the table after the Vasil hard-fork has happened. Since this anyway won't happen before Vasil and further discussions are needed, then CIP 48 extended submitted data for CIP 25. The proposal was is a bit rushed out in terms of quality and format.
So the content itself is okay technically-wise, but there are quite a few shortcomings when it comes to how it is written. So we asked the author to fix that. CIP 30, we have agreed to just close up requests. It's been inactive for a while. The author is not responsive. I can't close it myself, unfortunately, because I'm on windows. But if any of the other auditors want to do it, please do. CIP 45 then the using pledge as a bidding program, there is some overlap with CIP 50. This is part of the broader discussions about rewards and incentives and there were concerns being raised about this actually incentivizing large pledge owners to just create more stake pools without actually impacting the decentralization of Cardano. At least not in a good way.
Then we went through CIP 68, which we agreed to put that last check for next week and merge as proposed given that's, the technical content was, already has been through many iterations although there were a few points raised regarding this two-step beta data identifications that could perhaps, they discussed as well. So anyway, that will be a full two weeks before we go to the last check and we'll see for further updates after that. We've been through the NFT identity proposal to CIP 68, which also sounds technically okay, in the context of CIP 25, although it narrates the same shortcomings and flaws. So perhaps further discussions are needed. The format of that one is also a bit fleshed out and could deserve well, that be a bit more love and especially some more details on, well, the actual details of the CIPs. Possibly also some renaming, since this seems to be heavily inspired by the W3C recommendations, maybe could be made a bit clearer from the CIP title and finally CIP 60, the token metadata extension for music-related tokens, which comes as an extension of CIP 25 and has been a collaboration between many different individuals in the music industry around Cardano.
It is mainly proposing a set of 20+ new fields that are specific to music-related NFTs. And we agreed to discuss it as the last check for not the next biweekly, but one after which will be also in the US-friendly time zone. And that's it, sorry, we are four minutes beyond the clock and thank you all.


---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
