**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [May 10 2022 Transcript](#may-10-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [PR177 CIP-0005 | Add prefixes for output datum hash and script data hash](#pr177)    
    + [PR181 CIP30: getUtxos null instead of undefined](#pr181)
    + [PR182 CIP-1852: fix broken CIP links](#pr182)    
  * [Last Check](#last-check)        
  * [Review](#review)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](#pr242)
    + [CIP-0052? | Cardano audit best practice guidelines](#pr252)
  * [Issues](#issues)
    + [PR109 CIP-0003: Broken links on the website](#pr109)
    + [PR167 A public collateral and tx broadcast service](#pr167)
    + [PR168 CIP-0027: Covering existing policy locked assets](#pr168)
    + [PR169 CIP-0030: provide unique wallet identification](#pr169)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 10/05/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://www.crowdcast.io/cips-biweekly), [recorded](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/cip-editors-meeting-44) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## May 10 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, ~Duncan Coutts~, Sebastien Guillemot, ~Frederic Johnson~, ~Robert Phair~. 
**Guests**: Michael Liesenfelt


**M. Àngels**-: Hello everyone. Welcome to the CIP meeting number 44. My name is Marie Àngels, and I work at the Cardano Foundation, and I am here to facilitate this meeting. Today we have Sebastien Guillemot and Matthias Benkort that will lead this meeting as editors of the CIP process. We have here in this "i" button the agenda that you can follow. It has direct links to the PRs that we are going to comment. And at the bottom, you have the ask questions button over here that you can use to ask any questions, or you can also add your questions in the chat box. So Matthias tell us, do you want to add anything else to the agenda that was not expected?

**Matthias**-: Yeah, on my side, I would like to add PR 252. Reason being that this is a topic that will be discussed in the next workshop that is organized by IOG in Barcelona. So it was brought to my attention and this is a fairly straightforward CIP in a way, because it just describes best practices. But yeah, that's something we could just maybe have on the topic, discuss and see if people can comment already before the workshop so that the workshop can be a bit more productive.

**M. Àngels**-: Okay. Do you want to add it to the discussion section, or do you want us to start with PR 252?

**Matthias**-:Oh no, we don't have to start with it. We can discuss first the items on the agenda, I think.

### Triage 

#### PR177
 [PR177 CIP-0005 | Add prefixes for output datum hash and script data hash](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/177)

**M. Àngels**-: Okay. So, shall we start with triage?

**Matthias**-: Yeah, let's go.

**M. Àngels**-: PR177 CIP-0005 | Add prefixes for output datum hash and script data hash. Can you give, Matthias, a brief summary of this PR?

**Matthias**-: Yeah. So we have CIP 5, which has been there for a while, which defines a bunch of prefixes that we commonly use for Bech32 encoding, which is used mainly for short binary data, and to have a way to distinguish them in human readable interfaces. Like that's the encoding we use for address, for instance. And that's why we have this ADDR in front of all addresses, but we use it in command lines for all the things, actually. So tool, IDs, scripts, V-Key hashes, et cetera. And this PR adds a new one, which is for datum and redeemers or more exactly datum hash and redeemer hash, which is used by the, how do you call that again? Hardware devices, right? So ledger and tresor to show on screen, when you have to validate your transactions, the PR is made by Gabriel from Vacuum Labs who are working on the hardware integrations. So I think, yeah, we approved that a while back already. So it's quite an old one. And that's about it.

**M. Àngels**-: So shall be merged this one today?

**Matthias**-: I would say so. I see it has now conflict apparently, so we cannot merge it. So we'll just have to resolve the conflict because there are probably been some concurrent dates on the CIP 5. So not a big deal, but yeah, we'll just merge it. If not during the meeting right after once the conflicts have been resolved.

**Sebastien**-: Can somebody share their screen, just so...

**M. Àngels**-: I am not sharing my screen?

**Matthias**-: Nope. It's a bit black.

**M. Àngels**-: Sorry. Thank you very much for raising that. Shall we move to the next PR?

**Matthias**-:
Yeah, unless there is any objection on that one, but it's been there for yeah, a few months we just forgot about it.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. So for CIP 5, if I can just briefly add, so we also have a separate PR related to CIP 5, which adds a reference implementation to it. It'd be good if we get that merged as well. Considering that... Validation is just re-parsing every single file.

**Matthias**-:
So PR 251, right?

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah.

**Matthias**-:
Which is a reference implementation of what exactly? Of all the prefixes right? Made a package for, an NPM package.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. Yeah. It just gives you an adjacent object of just key and value and then it adds comments for you that describes the different keys.

**Matthias**-:
Okay. No, I mean, that's interesting to have, I guess. Do you automatically sync it from the repo or is it something manual?

**Sebastien**-:
Yes and no. So it generates JavaScript code from what we have in the repo, but what we have in the repo is not exactly machine readable. So you need to like convert from human readable to machine readable and then... [inaudible 00:06:06]

**Matthias**-:
Could it actually, maybe be also something we could do on the CIP 5 instead of this, this markdown table have a, just a big JSON file actually?

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. I considered up-streaming this change, let me send the link in chat. So if you open the link in the chat.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. I'm already on it actually.

**Sebastien**-:
Okay. Yeah. This is my human readable version of the markdown table.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. The the machine readable.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. And then basically this reference validation takes the JSON file and then generates JavaScript code from it.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. So yeah. Okay. No issue with adding that as a reference implementation indeed, but I would maybe consider also moving it upstream, the JSON part, like we've done for CIP 10, right. So that we've got something which is machine readable and then with tooling on top.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. Considers that the markdown file is easier to read for it to give context.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah.

**Sebastien**-:
So I'm not sure if we want to like generate a markdown from the JSON as well, but I'm not sure if we had like a good system for automatically... Generating markdown files. I remember we had this problem previously of like automatically generating files.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. I'm betting markdown files like that, as it, sorry... JSON files like that as a markdown table could be nice, but yeah, definitely if we want to do generation, that's easier in this direction from JSON to markdown than from markdown to JSON. Okay.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. But mostly I would want to check, we don't have any CI resources to generate the markdown from JSON. If we remove the mark down and replace with JSON OEM and generate the markdown automatically.

**Matthias**-:
Okay. I mean, fine like that, but just, or just comment on that. Okay. So yeah, I think we can just proceed with these two. I will do it after the call. Okay. What do we have next?

 #### PR181
[PR181 CIP30: getUtxos null instead of undefined](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/181)

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah, this is a bug in the current CIP 30 spec. Basically we right now specify that the function returns undefined in some cases, but undefined is not a valid JSON value. You can only use null. So basically changes.

**Matthias**-:
Oh. And you can only serialize to JSON, right? Through the web browser API.

**Sebastien**-:
Yes.

**Matthias**-:
Doh.

**Sebastien**-:
So if you pass undefined, it gets silently converted to null. So just to avoid people making bugs just to change this back, please.

**Matthias**-:
Okay. I can't find it though. It's what number again? It's sorry. It should be the agenda. Yes. But why can I not access it? Ah.

**M. Àngels**-:
You can not access the agenda?

**Matthias**-:
No, it was me. I was putting an extra S in the URL. Yes. Well, I wish we had proper sum-types, but I guess we won't.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. I think this API is kind of ugly anyway, but you know, we can fix it in a separate PR, at this point we can just...

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. Yeah. And there has been discussion recently as well with this wallet connect API, right. This recent and NFT launch of Instagram which uses it slightly...

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. But that will work very differently from CIP 30.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. It's a bit of the same spirit though. Oh, except you have this extra bridge in the middle and the way things work on Cardano are a bit different, but maybe there is also room for alignment a bit. I'm not sure if you would simplify anything for external people to integrate. I think CIP 30 is mostly fine as it is, except maybe the versioning part that we mentioned last time, which I'm still willing to make a pull request for.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. But in the meantime, I think we can merge this PR because it's just a small fix.

#### PR182
[PR182 CIP-1852: fix broken CIP links](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/182)

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. It's fixing a inconsistency. So next one, PR 182. No, what is it? Yeah. 182. Which is fixing some broken links yeah. Was approved a while back and we could just go for it. So the issue is that some of the CIPs reference other CIPs sometimes using relative links, which works on GitHub, but don't necessarily work on the website. So it's slightly better to use absolute URLs to make sure that, you know, things works on all platforms. We discussed that briefly on the issue and it's only about one of the CIPs anyway, but that's something we should be a bit careful with when merging new CIPs as well. So we've approved it. So unless someone has anything to say, also I'll just go ahead and merge it. Okay. All good then.

**M. Àngels**-:
Now I have added to the agenda, some issues. Do you want to review this or do you want to leave them for after the discussion point, which are the CIP 50 and the one you brought at the beginning?

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. Let's first talk about CIP 50 and the audit guidelines first so that we have time. And then if time is left, we can go for issues, which are a bit more minor points.

**M. Àngels**-:
Okay.

**Matthias**-:
Do we have Kevin today or not? No...

**M. Àngels**-:
We have Michael but not Kevin.

### Last Check 

### Review 

### Discussions 

#### PR242
 [PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)


**Matthias**-:
Yeah. So maybe Michael knows, actually. So there was this discussion a few weeks ago to start a study group on CIP 50 with people from IOG and this was something Kevin picked up and was sorting. I'm not sure if it has happened yet or no. It hasn't happened yet Michael, okay. So that's something we'd need to follow up with. I know Kevin did reach out to a few people and it was acting behind the scene to get it done, but yeah, I will just reach out to him. Yes, definitely. Vasil has brought some attention already. But yeah, there are people I think we can, from whom we can pick their brain to just start thinking about that who are not directly involved in Vasil. Okay. I will just reach out to Kevin and ask him if he has any update on that regarding this study group. Maybe you can bring Michael on screen, if just for a short time, maybe you have had also some discussions on the side already or got any feedback that you want to share?

**Michael**-:
All right, here we go. There's always many discussions on the side about this particular CIP, the very important CIP in many ways. So this will be continued to be [inaudible 00:16:12] feedback of individuals including yourself.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. Okay. So I guess this is also one of the CIPs where it would be worth maybe giving some summary of discussions every week. So I haven't gone through the whole discussion thread I admit yet, but I will try to yeah... Post summaries a bit like we did for the... Oh, what was it? The NFT standards. And CIP 30 actually, back in the days. So we get some yeah, regular point of synchronization where we can move the discussions a bit forwards.

**Michael**-:
That seems reasonable. And when we want to schedule any kind of meetings or debate or review on the scope of the CIP. I know at a prior meeting, you mentioned doing that in a side channel, in a different format, as long as it's public and anybody can join, that would probably be a benefit.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. So that's the study group I was mentioning and that's something that could actually be done publicly. I was thinking more initially that this could be a closed study group just to have it review and post actually the notes and the outcome of the meetings on the CIP but being public will also make sense. As a kind of discussion forum, which is just managed by the fixed bunch of individuals. I'm just writing to Kevin and okay. If we don't have anything more for this week, maybe on this one, we can leave it there and yeah. Move to the next item.



#### PR252
 [CIP-0052? | Cardano audit best practice guidelines](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/252)

**M. Àngels**-:
. So next item, I would say that this is the PR 252 that you wanted to comment, Matthias.

**Matthias**-:
Yes. Oh, more than commenting. Just bring to the attention of the CIP enthusiasts. The audit best practice guidelines. So this was a document that was written mostly by Simon here, in discussion with the various auditing parties that are currently involved on Cardano. And the main idea is to give some general guidelines for DApp developers who wants to have their apps audited by those auditors, such that there can be some form of common format for sharing information on what your DApp is doing. What's the expected outcome while your contract high level interface and sort of make the whole audit process more streamlined. So that means most of what's written in the CIP currently has been reviewed by the auditing parties. And now it's more question of getting that reviewed a bit more by the community, as you know, because this is a two sided discussions. And as I was saying, there will be a workshop organized by IOG in Barcelona next week, actually.

**Matthias**-:
And this CIP would be one of the topics during that workshop. So that's why Simon wanted to get some attention on it. I've already done a first round of review getting some feedback, I think in particular, that there is one part which could be extracted as another CIP even, which is this whole idea of a specification language for the contract interface, a bit like open API, but for on chain scripts, right. Where you can clearly specify or state what's your datum, what's your redeemer, what's your transaction structure invariance and stuff like that, which is touched a bit in these CIPs, but more as a side topic. And that could be an interesting standout in itself to have. And that's all I have to say about it. So we will leave it there for commenting and maybe have it in the next biweekly for a proper review. And then yeah. See how it goes.

**M. Àngels**-:
Okay. So we are going to move this for review for the next meeting. And I guess there, you will have information gathered in this workshop that you are having next week, right?

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. So hopefully there will be also, yeah. Another batch of update after the workshop. And yeah, since there are mostly guidelines, there isn't much to discuss really on the technical side of it. So I've made a few suggestions just on the editorial aspect, moving some sections round and maybe renaming a few things. But apart from that, it's pretty straightforward. And it's really coming from all the auditing parties. So if anyone wants their DApps audited they'd rather just follow the guidelines.

**M. Àngels**-:
Nice. Very useful and very interesting. So anyone want to comment on this PR?

**Sebastien**-:
No, I think it makes sense. I wanted to check, so did she want to merge this before the event or after. The main part of the event is just discussing this document right?

**Matthias**-:
Well, that's what I told Simon basically, we won't probably get it merged before the event, just because of the whole process happening. And I want to let people have a chance to discuss it, because maybe there are some of the guidelines that don't make sense from a DApp developer perspective. So far it's been mostly reviewed and written with the auditing parties, so I want to give enough time to discuss it. And since this was submitted only a few days ago, I don't think we have... It left enough time until the workshop. So if we have it already, in good shape for the workshop and kind of ready for review that's good enough. Okay. So maybe we can move to a few of the issues, or we have something in the chat, someone who was employed in order to look at your smart contract and review it and add any comments. Thank you very much.

### Issues 

#### PR109
 [PR109 CIP-0003: Broken links on the website](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/109)

**M. Àngels**-:
So if you want, we can move to the issues. We can go to PR 109, just a quick recap. The issues are located here and... Please Matthias correct me if I am wrong, it weren't intended to be used, but as are being used organically.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah, exactly. We didn't really thought of what to do with issue initially. And there are nothing in the CIP process that mentions opening issues, but yeah, just happened. And now we have a bunch of issues to go through, which is also a nice medium of discussions in a way for people that just want to yeah. Be part of a discussions on the CIP and yeah, don't have anything to put in a pull request because that's also something right now we want to see CIP is merged. You don't have much way to comment on it, except if you do another pull request, but sometimes if it's just questions or general discussions, maybe an issue is better suited for that. So I guess we just need to get issues as part of the triage that we do, and make sure that we pick relevant issues every week as well. Or every two weeks. So this one's broken links on CIP 3. What is CIP 3 again? The wallet key generation, the history table.

**Matthias**-:
Yes. I guess this is the same problem as we were stating before that it's probably using relative URLs and here on the website, it doesn't work. So let's check that. Yes, exactly. So we can fix that by using absolute links. And I think this is maybe what Robert is suggesting. Yes. Require absolute path name in the CIPs. So I will maybe add to the to do here, fix broken link. Okay. So we can fix it the same way that was done for CIP 1,851 previously by changing the relative links to absolute links. And we're good.

#### PR167
 [PR167 A public collateral and tx broadcast service](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/167)

**Matthias**-:
Next one. PR167 A public collateral and tx broadcast service

**M. Àngels**-:
I think that this one Robert commented that there wasn't enough information and there's not been follow up from the author.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. I guess it was intended to be a draft CIP maybe. But it's very tiny draft and yeah, okay, guess I get the spirit, which is mostly now covered by the extensions that are added to CIP 30, right? The was recently, this discussion around adding this, get collateral functions to this, the CIP 30 interface, which is kind of exactly answering that topic, except it does it locally from the installed wallet than through a remote service. So I think it would just add a label waiting for author. Any comments also on this get quality role? Okay.

#### PR168
 [PR168 CIP-0027: Covering existing policy locked assets](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/168)

**M. Àngels**-:
Shall we move? The next one. Okay. PR168 CIP-0027: Covering existing policy locked assets, so what is this one about?

**M. Àngels**-:
Is there discussion in this one? It's...

**Matthias**-:
So it's again about royalties on NFTs that are using the phase one monitoring script. So this is indeed a whole discussions about how to enforce royalties on NFTs. And the idea would be to lock existing assets that have been minted previously into a contract, but with scripts that would make sure that the royalties are enforced correctly on every transactions and exchanged. Then there is whole thread of comments, mostly with a solo I see who was, if I remember correctly, the author of the CIP 27. Or if not just contributing to discussions back in the days, at least.

**Sebastien**-:
Do we want keep going over these issues? I feel like a lot of them feel like just drafts and I [inaudible 00:31:43].

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. Many of them are draft or just starts of discussions. And maybe they are fine to just leave us as discussions until they make it as a pull request. But then we still need to do some form of issue managements at least to close the old discussions and, do a bit of house cleaning. I don't think we will go through the whole thread of discussions on that one just here. And it hasn't got any updates for about six months also so I'm not sure if the discussion has settled or not in the end. That's one we need to go through and read, and see what's up, but right now it just seems like an idea that sounds to have been abandoned, but I'm not sure.

**M. Àngels**-:
Shall we ping the author and...

**Matthias**-:
Well, we should read, read the conversation thread first and then see if it's... I would say we have two outcome already, either we ping the other to see if it's still relevant based on what we've read in the thread, or we just close the thread completely, close the issue from being, resolved and installed. And if they ever want to come back to it, they're free to reopen the issue and... Or make a pull request actually acting on it. But first I would like to get a sense of what's being said in the thread.

**M. Àngels**-:
Do you want to add to the agenda in two weeks to check if you have time to read it or to go and read it, or do you want to it a month?

**Matthias**-:
I would say for now we don't add it to the agenda. I will read it. And if it's something that we want to add to the agenda in the sense that the discussion hasn't been settled, then yeah. We'll just add it. If not, then I will close the issue with a comment explaining exactly that.

**M. Àngels**-:
Okay.

**Matthias**-:
Yes, indeed. And as is saying in the chat, there is a lot of controversy over whether you should be able to add royalties to a project which did not need them within the original policy. And this is indeed a topic that's been discussed in the past here. So I think this is part of what the thread will be about. People disagreeing about whether or not a CIP makes sense in itself, but it's also two separate concerns in a way. That a CIP in the end is just a proposal always. And whether or not these proposals end up being adopted by marketplaces and projects, that's a different topic. So if the proposal makes sense from a technical standpoint and it's something that could indeed be implemented and not lead to security issues or stuff like that, that makes for valid proposal. And you may still disagree with the proposal and not implement it, that doesn't discard the proposal from being proposed. But if there is indeed no proposals, then we can just close it. Maybe for just a discussions, like have an idea. What do you think? Bad idea. Okay. Close it.

**M. Àngels**-:
Do you make any comment on what Matthias just commented or shall we move forward?

**Sebastien**-:
Only to agree. 

#### PR169
 [PR169 CIP-0030: provide unique wallet identification](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/169)

**Matthias**-:
Next one is PR169 CIP-0030: provide unique wallet identification
When trying to integrate light wallets with the Plutus application backend, I came across the issue where I need to, I need the wallet ID before activating the contract. Yes. And currently the PAB, I guess, uses the wallet ID from Cardano wallet, which is a hash of the verification, the hold verification key of the wallet. And that is indeed not something which is remotely specified anywhere. So, okay. I will maybe just comment on that.

**Sebastien**-:
One thing is that we do have a CIP for like a wallet checksum. Which is kind of similar in concepts, right? So obviously it does the same thing, which is a hash of the wallet's public key. And so they can request for a CIP 30 feature that exposes this checksum. Or implement something similar. But I'm not sure if this is enough that could fit the standard requirement for a wallet ID or do they want something more like a key exchange, ephemeral key as an ID?

**Matthias**-:
Well, from what I read here, I guess the strategy is really just to have an identifier for the wallet, which is unique enough for wallet. So probably the checksum would also be sufficient, but maybe what form would it take to checksum? The question is, the checksum is meant to be represented as image right, but you can also just represent it as a sequence of bytes.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. There's an image format and there's also a text format. The text format is like a characters line, I think. So it obviously has a lot of quotients that should be enough.

**Matthias**-:
So I guess that there is really two questions in one, in a way, there is what exactly is the ID format and specific used by EV and Cardano wallet currently. And the second question is, what kind of ID do we want to use more generally speaking for wallets? And that's something which could be, for instance, part of CIP 30, indeed. You ask for wallet identifier, and you get something which is in the same format. That could be the checksum specified by CIP 4, or that could be indeed the wallet, the ID used by the Cardano wallet at the moment, the advantage of using the CIP 4 one is that it's already specified. So we've already got it out there. So we can just point to this one. And if we want to use the same as Cardano wallet, then there is a small CIP to write.

**Matthias**-:
Or at least this part of the specifications to write. It's not much right. It's basically just, what I've written as a comment here. So I'm not sure it's worth a whole CIP but it could be part of the CIP 30 to say that's, but this suppose also that a wallet is using a hierarchical scheme, or at least some key that is following the key generation from CIP 3, which I think must wallets do, if not all. I know Nami is a bit special in that regard, but I think they still follow the same derivation tree. Right. They just happen to use only one key of that tree.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah.

**Matthias**-:
So in that sense, yeah. They, they could all be using the wallet ID from the Cardano wallet. I'd like the checksum in a way, especially because it also come with this image part. And then you can think of all sort of flows where upon validating or signing a transaction, for instance, you can display again, the checksum just as an anti...

**Sebastien**-:
One idea we had for [inaudible 00:41:24] in the past is that we had this checksum, right?

**Matthias**-:
Yeah.

**Sebastien**-:
But we also, at some point we're considering some sort of way to connect your transaction metadata to Dropbox or something similar. So you could have off chain transaction metadata that's local due to you. But to do this, you wouldn't want to upload the unencrypted data, you want to encrypt first, but we don't want to encrypt it with your account key because then to approve the encryption, you would need to provide the account public key.

**Sebastien**-:
So we had this idea of coming with a new derivation path with a different purpose. So if you have the root recovery phrase, then you could generate a different key path, which would be like a utility key path. With the utility key path, you could have the wallet checksum key used for the wall identifier and then a wallet encryption key use for off chain, transaction information, and so on. And so make it slightly easier for people to cope with standards in non complicated ways, instead of always relying on the master public key.

**Matthias**-:
In CIP 4, what key is used here to compute the checksum? Is it directly coming from...

**Sebastien**-:
The public key.

**Matthias**-:
The root public key as well?

**Sebastien**-:
Not the root public keys, it's the account public key.

**Matthias**-:
Okay. The account public key. Okay. So you have one checksum and per account, not per wallet in the end.

**Sebastien**-:
Yep. Because the main reason that was created was to make sure that users are restoring the right wallet. [inaudible 00:43:15] the account they were restoring is correct.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. But CIP 30 operates at the level of wallets.

**Sebastien**-:
No, it's still account based.

**Matthias**-:
Still account based?

**Sebastien**-:
You're getting addresses for an account. You sign with an account.

**Matthias**-:
And okay. Then it's up to the wallet to decide which account I guess, because there is nothing in API that's that lets you select the account.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah. It's when you enable CIP 30 the wallet will show you a dropdown asking you which account you want.

**Matthias**-:
Okay. So it could still work for that then.

**Sebastien**-:
Yeah.

**Matthias**-:
Okay. The idea is clear, but there is the question of making it a proper extension to CIP 30. At the same time, last time we said, we might want to sort of freeze the CIP 30 as it is now and have new extensions come as new CIPs just for the sake of having one core, which is fixed, but this thing feels also quite core in the end. So it could be just added before we freeze everything. Yeah. Okay. So from me, at least I would be quite in favor of extending the CIP 30 with a `getWalletId` or `getWalletChecksum` functions that would implement CIP 4, and have that as a the wallet ID, if it's ever needed by a DApp for any form of identification. Hmm. It's interesting 204, but we cannot actually do that with add to 5519. We can do it to convert to 5519. So we need to convert or translate the key, which is not unfeasible, but it was not quite recommended back in the days.

**Matthias**-:
Anyway. Okay. So I guess that's about it for these issues. The author also hasn't been quite responding for a few months, so I guess we can just put it as waiting for author for now and see if... Yeah. Maybe make a pull request to extend CIP 30 and add this checksum to it.

**Matthias**-:
On a side topic or coming back to the CIP 50 topic. Kevin just told me basically has pinged a bunch of people, has got in touch, but for now indeed all the bandwidth is taken for the Vasil hard fork. And therefore there is not much people available from IOG to review that. So we might as well just start a study group without IO and get various people from the community. I think it's already started anyway on the issue itself on the pull request itself.

**Michael**-:
Are you suggesting a Crowdcast fork in some way?

**Matthias**-:
No, but that's actually a nice segway to one thing we need to announce as well. We want to move away from Crowdcast to Discord. We have set up a Discord server for the CIP. And in there, so there will be voice channels available and we could definitely use one of them to discuss the CIP 50. So yeah, as a kind of fork of the current biweekly, or more as a yeah... Side meetings that could be done there. Maybe we can already share the link to the Discord.

**M. Àngels**-:
Yes.

**Matthias**-:
Because the next biweekly, and ones after would be held on Discord, at least for starter, we have also things in place to record them and they will be published on a YouTube channels. And will have also then the proper chats on this call as well to discuss. And we'll be able to have more people onto on the speaker side, if needed, as we've been a bit struggling with that in the past where people had to jump on and off the voice spots on the broadcast.

**M. Àngels**-:
I am getting the invite to share.

**Matthias**-:
I will also share it then on Twitter later on, and we possibly have a list of all the people that are registered to the Crowdcast meetings currently. I'm not sure if we can reach out to them through some kind of mailing or something, but we should also put it on the readme, I think, of the CIP repository so that it's available in place.

**M. Àngels**-:
This is the channel, and here you have the invite. And as Matthias said, we are going to share this in Twitter, right, and identify all the attendants.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. So try to reach as much people as possible with this because the next biweekly will be done on this...

**M. Àngels**-:
What I was thinking is that maybe we can create an event in Crowdcast because we are going to maintain the subscription while we are testing Discord. And in the event... At the invite link and said that it's going to be held on Discord.

**Matthias**-:
That's a good idea. And at least maybe just jump on the Crowdcast for the first, like two minutes and tell it to people who have missed the announce, at least for a few weeks. That could be, yeah. Good idea.

### Close 

**M. Àngels**-:
Perfect. Matthias, do you want to wrap up the session with a summary of what we have talked about today?

**Matthias**-:
Yeah. So let me go back through the links. So we had CIP, a new prefix for reading redeemers and datum to CIP 5. We agreed on merging. That pull request currently has conflicts, so we just need to resolve the conflicts first. Then there is a small bug fix in the specification of CIP 30, where we have to use null of undefined, because ultimately it needs to be JSON compatible. A bunch of broken links also that were fixed for CIP 1852 and also for CIP 3. So not fixed, but mentioned, and we will fix them along the way.

**Matthias**-:
We discussed a bit CIP 50. So there has been quite a lot of discussions happening on the pull requests, which we would need to go through. There is not much movement on the study group from IOG and research on this area, mostly because of the upcoming hard forks are taking all the bandwidth. I'm in touch still with Kevin on that to get this happening. Otherwise we can already get started on the new Discord with this. What else we discussed, went through a few issues. Most of them were quite old actually. So we haven't got news from authors for a bit. There is one in particular that we want to go through and read because there is a quite whole thread regarding NFT royalties, which is a quite controversial topic, indeed.

**Matthias**-:
There is one other, which was quite interesting about providing a wallet identification mechanism and adding that to the current CIP 30 API. So we discussed maybe using the checksum specification that come from CIP 4 and have that required as one of the functions available in the API of CIP 30. And finally, I think we discussed pull request 252, which is the Cardano audit best practices guidelines, regarding... So guidelines for people that want to get their DApps audited. There will be an upcoming workshop with pretty much all the auditors, I think in Barcelona organized by IO and the CIP will also be discussed there. So if there is any feedback to provide, that would be good to do it before that. And that's it I think.

**M. Àngels**-:
Yes. Next meeting is going to be in two weeks and it's going to be in the US time zone. It's going to be at four UTC and it will be held on, let me check the day, the exact date, May 24th, 4:00 PM UTC.

**Matthias**-:
Yeah, on Discord. But still maintain the Crowdcast invitation links, at least for a few biweekly meetings still.

**M. Àngels**-:
Thank you everyone to join us today and have a nice day and week, bye bye.

---
## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
