**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [July 19 2022 Transcript](#july-19-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [CIP-0058? | Bitwise primitives](#pr283)
    + [CIP-0003? | Broken links on the website](#pr109)
    + [CIP-0030? | deprecate signTx & add chain signing](#pr206)
    + [CIP-0030? | Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable](#pr209)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](#pr263)     
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](#pr226)
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update weekly update](#pr242)     
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 19/07/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significance to you.  


## Editors Meeting Flow

**Triage/Review**: Some CIPs might fall out of grace or not get updated, a CIP that hasn’t seen activity for 3 months should be checked on, and appropriate action taken. Ex: did any of the recent changes obsolete current CIPs? Consider ‘Active’ -> ‘Obsolete’ transitions..  

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  


## July 19 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**:  ~Matthias Benkort~, Sebastien Guillemot, Frederic Johnson, Robert Phair. 
**Guests**: Kevin Hammond

### Triage

#### PR283
[PR283 CIP-0058? | Bitwise primitives](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/283)

**M. Àngels** -: Thank you, Fred. So we will start with the triage. The first item on the triage is Bitwise Primitives. So this is PR 283. So any of the editors want to give a brief explanation regarding this PR and the status?

**Sebastien** -: So although not an editor, Michael Peyton Jones is the main one who was kind of fitting this. And I don't think he is on this call. He's usually in these meetings. We may have to skip this one, here.

**M. Àngels** -: So shall we wait until Michael joins the meeting? So he will give an overview of the PR?

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. Ideally that, or somebody from mLab, the [inaudible 00:08:34] lab is here that wants to talk about this. Even though Michael Peyton Jones isn't here, who's the main person who not only is reading it, but the [inaudible 00:08:46]. That's something we can do.

#### PR109
[PR109 CIP-0003: Broken links on the website](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/109)

**M. Àngels** -: Okay. Sorry, if you hear a baby, it's my sister's, which is around. So, next item on the agenda is broken links on the website, which is PR 109. So this is under issues. We have the pull request, but organically by the community, we starting to receive open issues. So I can make a brief summary of what I know. So there is CIP number one.

**Sebastien** -: Do we need to go over this pair, I think? Because there's a lot of people here who are not editors. So I think probably it's not worth their time.

**Frederic** -: And that one is closed, right? So we good.

**M. Àngels** -: Can you repeat, Fred, please? Fred, were you saying something?

**Frederic** -: I was saying there is been closed. For those who know where, there's an autogen site that is started on the site that lets you access directly the body of the PRs, the equivalent of GitHub. So it's on... seems that Cardano Foundation. It's resolved. I mean to say, we can move to the next item on the agenda.

**M. Àngels** -: I think that I am still having issues accessing one of the items over here. So I'm still facing a broken link. But maybe we can take this offline. 

#### PR206
[PR206 CIP-0030? | deprecate signTx & add chain signing](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/206)

**M. Àngels** -: We can take this offline and we can go to the next item on the agenda, which is CIP 30, duplicate sign transaction and add chain signing.

**Sebastien** -: I can talk about this one. So this is basically the fact that right now, whenever you want to chain transactions together, using CIP 30 is kind of awkward. The reason why is because wallets need to show the confirmation prompt that tells them what kind of transaction they're confirming and needs to know what keys to sign with for the inputs. If the input for a transaction isn't on chain yet, there's no way for the wallet to easily know this information. And this leads to problems, because users may want to submit mobile transactions on their favorite decks, but get an error saying, error, you're trying to use... So you tick so that isn't created yet, which is not a great user experience. So to solve this issue, we can allow that to kind of inject knowledge about pending transactions into the wallet.

**Sebastien** -: And this is the only real way to do it, because even if the wallet has man pool support, this is not a perfect solution, because it's all the issues where the chain transactions that were all submitted to the wallet. But that's not always the case. The only kind of generic solution to this is for the DApp itself to give hints about pending transaction state so that the wallet can use this to send a transaction, and assume a specific case will be accepted. So to implement this feature, we basically modify CIP 30 to add this kind of information to the signed transaction function. At the same time, we also modify the format of the endpoint to basically make it easier to modify this in the future. Questions?

**Frederic** -: So one of the question I had regarding that entire process is, is Rob on board with it? So Rob is the original author from CIP 30 and the modification of Bayou.

**Sebastien** -: Yeah.

**Frederic** -: Okay.

**Sebastien** -: And you can see in the discussion on the CIP, there's also Marcel from Farrell that's talked on this issue as well. The problem with the CIP is, as all other modifications to the CIP, there's no governance for CIP 30 that is explicit. So it's unclear when, if, how many changes to CIP 30 should be merged. So this PR, along with the next one we're talking after this, it's just stuck in this limbo. So to avoid getting things stuck in limbo, I just want to spend some time coming up with a way to change the CIP 30 structure to make it easier to have alternatives for various endpoints. And this is also something that the catalyst team was interested in, because they also want to use the same kind of flexibility to potentially introduce a governance API into CIP 30. So it may be that you want to merge this regardless, or we may want to keep this CIP on hold until we get this extended enabled functionality that, because the team also wants to be implemented, that will help their life and also help push this proposal through.

**Frederic** -: I feel that merging will be the easiest path forward, but I agree that if this goes down that path and it can just become a bigger mess later, and it might warrant a separate conversation. By the way, for anybody interested in participating, there's a CIP chat room. I can see that Andrew's in the room right there. I don't know how to proceed regarding this one. Rob, how do you feel?

**M. Àngels** -: Rob? I don't know if you are talking, but at least me, I am not able to listening to you.

**Sebastien** -: He's just-

**Frederic** -: I am hearing Rob.

**M. Àngels** -: Okay.

**Frederic** -: Maria's just restarting the stream. She'll be right back.

**M. Àngels** -: You can refresh the page. Now I can hear you too, Rob.

**Robert** -: Okay. Both of the options that Sebastian said sound good to me. I think it would be great to have some kind of governance process for this, because there are so many contributions. I think it would be great to include Rob on the governance question itself and then maybe go ahead with this or maybe wait, I don't have any particular opinion about it. [Now I've lost everybody.]

**Sebastien** -: We'll see if the Catalyst team is interested in pushing for their potential change to sit through for the [inaudible 00:17:03] function. This is something that was discussed, but not something that they've decided on. It's an open question. But if you decide to spend time on that, we may as well move in that direction if revisiting this issue in a month, two months' time [inaudible 00:17:19] before we can decide to just merge and move on.

**M. Àngels** -: Shall we ping anyone in the comments? Because you were talking about a person that I thought it was Rob, but then I understood it was another person that is involved in this PR.

**Robert** -: It's Rob with the nine Os in the middle. R O O O O B.

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. Rob, Rob Aptius. He's a business [inaudible 00:18:02].

**M. Àngels** -: So, should I ping him?

**Frederic** -: The other, more involved option... Yes, please. Ping him in the comments is going to be good. The other option will be to maybe fork the PR and just make it clear that it has a governance component where people can add and modify it, even though they're not the main author. Otherwise, if we get the access like in [inaudible 00:18:23]-

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. So that's where Matthias is wanting to work on. He's talked about potentially writing this.

**Frederic** -: Okay.

**M. Àngels** -: So what do you want to do? How do you want to follow with this one?

**Sebastien** -: I would just put this on pause because there's not really a rush to merch it, and then see it in one to two months' time what's happening with the Catalyst folks. And if they help us come up with a new registration standard for a CIP 30, that would solve this issue.

**M. Àngels** -:You are okay. You are right. Because I needed to... Thank you very much for that. Okay. Now should be able to, right? So perfect, we are going to put this on hold and we are going to ping Rob. Any of you want to do it? If not, I can do it myself, but I need to know what exactly do you want from Rob?

**Sebastien** -: I don't think you need to ping him. I don't think it'll prove anything for it.

**Frederic** -: Thank you. We can just add a comment, Maria. Feel free to take it on. Just that this is on pause until we have [inaudible 00:20:06] back for CIP 30 and how to add public single contributors.

**M. Àngels** -: This is on hold until... Can you repeat, Fred, something about CIP 30, right? That we're waiting?

**Frederic** -: Until some kind of governance path can be discussed further regarding updating the CIP without being the lead author.

**M. Àngels** -: Makes sense, I guess.

**Robert** -: Do we also want to add something that the question is being pursued in a Catalyst proposal? Did I get that right?

**Sebastien** -: No. No. It's just the Catalyst team is working on a feature that where they may also benefit from the same solution that this CIP would benefit from-

**Robert** -: I got it now. Okay. Thanks [inaudible]. Nevermind then.

**M. Àngels** -: Shall we [inaudible 00:21:10]? Or it's not necessary?

**Sebastien** -: No, you can leave it out.

#### PR209
[PR209 CCIP-0030? | Adding optional networkId parameter to .enable](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/209)

**M. Àngels** -: Okay, perfect. Good. Then we can move to the next item on the agenda, which is also CIP 30, adding optional network ID parameter to enable.

**Sebastien** -: And this one is stuck for the same reason.

### Last Check

#### PR263
[PR263 CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/263)

**M. Àngels** -: Okay. Let's leave the same comment. So then we have in last sec, CIP 54, Cardano smart NFTs.

**Sebastien** -: So this one was waiting for feedback from NFT marketplaces if I remember correctly, right? Or was it a separate one?

**M. Àngels** -: I think it's a separate one, because there are one that includes a marketplace with its NFT market verification. And this one was added to the developers digest newsletter, but this wasn't requested a specific input from marketplaces. If you need it, we can do it. But for a conversation I had with Matthias, only the other one required a specific input from NFT marketplaces.

**Sebastien** -: So what was the blocker?

**M. Àngels** -: Can you repeat?

**Sebastien** -: So the blocker for the CIP... Was this blocked for the same reason as the fungible token standard, which is the security concerns, but leveraging the mint transactions again? I think in general, probably the CIP will want to reflect the upcoming changes to Vasil, which gives them a better solution to the problem they're trying to solve. So their approach may be somewhat deprecated by this. And in fact, there's two CIPs that were introduced in this, we created the agenda, 66 and 68, that kind of tackle the same problem, I believe, but using Vasil features.

**M. Àngels** -: From the notes that I have from previous meeting, I think that the author was about to do an implementation. And, if implemented, we are going to move it to lab dev. I don't have more information if this has happened.

**Sebastien** -: That's fine. I don't remember a reason in particular to avoid merging, other than the concerns that were raised by the approach and the fact that we may want to revisit this in the context of the newly introduced Vasil hard fork changes.

**M. Àngels** -: So you suggest that we wait on the Vasil?

**Sebastien** -: No, no. I'm just saying that they may want to add a section about this or consider their API, given these new features, or maybe they don't care. I don't know, but as far as I'm concerned, as long as they have an implementation, I don't mind merging it. I don't think there's anything technically wrong by the proposal.

**M. Àngels** -: [inaudible 00:26:08] test approved the PR right now. So we would be missing one approval.

**Frederic** -: Yeah. There's conflicts to resolve.

**Robert** -: Hold on a sec. Okay.

**Frederic** -: It's a matter of speaking the numbering. So I think 54th will be fine.

**M. Àngels** -: Now we have... oh? No. So Fred, are you trying to solve these conflicts, or shall we wait and do it offline?

**Frederic** -: Do it offline. Do it after this.

**M. Àngels** -: Good. So once the conflicts are resolved, shall we merge it offline? Or shall we leave it to merge online in the next meeting?

**Frederic** -: I think it's going to be fine to merge after this meeting once it's there. I'm just looking at it, and it's just the tentative proposals that are in the work. And it's just a matter of moving it to Robert, Sebastien. We've been doing the last ones. If you want to do this one, otherwise it should be fine [inaudible 00:28:14]-

**Robert** -: I'll have a look after the meeting goes. I'm looking at it right now, but we'll finish it up after the meeting.

### Review

#### PR226
[PR226 CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/226)

**M. Àngels** -: Okay, perfect. So this is going to be merged offline. And then under review, we have two items. The first one is additional factors for NFT market verification. This is the one that we send communication to some of the NFT marketplaces to give us feedback. So I don't know if any one of you would like to make a summary for our audience today on regards of this PR? I thought it was me that I wasn't listening to anyone, but I think that... Is it me?

**Sebastien** -: No, I think it's just that not be as [inaudible 00:29:29].

**M. Àngels** -: Okay. So, let's go to the comments. No feedback since my last comment. Now I do. Sorry. As nobody was speaking, I thought that I had audio issues, and I reset it. Perfect. So these are the marketplace that were approached, but I am not aware that they have provided feedback either in this court or not in the PR. I mean, in the PR there are no more comments. So I don't know if you want to wait it works more. Maybe we can try to contact the marketplaces again. So if you agree, what I think we could do is to try to reach them again. So maybe now, yes, maybe to take this back after Vasil. 

#### PR242
[PR242 CCIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update weekly update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**M. Àngels** -: So next item of the agenda is PR 242. This is the PR around [inaudible 00:31:13] decentralization. We have a specific channel here to discuss this PR. I don't know if any of you want to give a brief summary on the status of this?

**Sebastien** -: I think this one is still pending some sort of response from IOG, right?

**M. Àngels** -: Yes. I think there's Kevin here. I don't know. Maybe if he wants to-

**Robert** -: Just that the author has accepted the possibility that maybe there won't be a response from IOG, and is prepared to go ahead with this in one way or another, is one of the things that came out in the discussion in the Discord, the other channel.

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. I mean, if there's no response from IOG, there's no reason not to merge this, right? Just because it's merged. The [inaudible 00:32:50] Cardano has implemented. From that perspective, if they feel the discussion is fine, and if they've given up hope on receiving a response from IOG, then I think we should just merge this.

**Frederic** -: I would be fine with that.

**Frederic** -: [Inaudible 00:33:18] same here. Just want to bring your attention to the chat. [inaudible 00:33:22] is currently here for CIP 50 and can't call in, but he's currently typing some comments.

**M. Àngels** -: So I'm going to bring Kevin on stage. So maybe he can give us an update from IOG. Hi, Kevin.

**Kevin** -: Hi, everyone. Nice to speak to you. Hopefully you're hearing me okay.

**M. Àngels** -: Yes. Perfect.

**Kevin** -: Excellent. That's great. So the story of the CIP 50 is, we've looked at this, we've evaluated internally. We think it's an interesting suggestion. We're keen to progress this a bit further. We obviously have a few other things on our plates at the moment, but we think it's a great opportunity to engage with the community and to discuss these ideas. So I won't make any commitment on IOG's behalf at this point in time, but I would make positive noises to the author. I would definitely make positive noises to the author. And as Sebastien knows, we're hoping that once we've got an opportunity, probably after Vasil, we can then start to progress discussion on this and similar issues. We think it's a great way to engage with the community. I think there's some good ideas coming out this and other-

**M. Àngels** -:
 h, perfect. Thank you very much, Kevin. [inaudible 00:35:08]-

**Kevin** -: And if I could just add, I suspect people think that IOG is ignoring all the great work you're doing. That's absolutely not the case. We have people who are monitoring the steps, going through them, looking at the ideas. And as I was saying, we obviously just don't have the capacity to progress them all at the moment, but we are taking stock of them and we will see what we can do as we move forward to the new frameworks that are being set up. Alternatives, et cetera.

**M. Àngels** -: Thank you very much, Kevin. That is very, very nice to hear.

**Robert** -: Kevin while you're on, do you see the last question that came into the chat?

**Kevin** -: No, I'm not sure I've got the chat.

**Robert** -: There's a little button in the upper right hand corner. In case you can't get it, there's just a question about the-

**Kevin** -: Oh yeah, I got it.
 
**Robert** -: Do you see it?

**Kevin** -: Okay. Right. So the question is from Steuf, is that right?

**Robert** -: Yes.

**Kevin** -: Will I be able to access game theory? We can ask the researchers that. We have common analysis that was done internally. I think most of the game theory results are published, but I don't know whether the raw data is published. Tell us exactly what you would like. When we start to engage with you, we can certainly see what we have available. And I don't think there's any issue with sharing any of that information with the community, so this information that IOG has produced. But don't quote me on that. So to reemphasize what I said earlier, there's real willingness and enthusiasm for engaging with the community to the ecosystem and core going forward.

**M. Àngels** -: Good. So next meeting, which is in two weeks, from the CF, we would like to have [inaudible 00:37:56] Ramazon to join. He is a blockchain researcher, and he will also give us his input on this CIP. Anyone else has anything to add on this PR?

**Robert** -: All okay, here.

**M. Àngels** -: So this is everything that we had included in the agenda. So we have left 25 minutes. I don't know if you want to review any specific PR. Rob, you mentioned one that you wanted to review. Maybe we can go to it.

**Robert** -: Do you mean me?

**M. Àngels** -: Yeah. I think that you shared one PR to bring into the agenda that was not urgent, but as we have time left, maybe we can review that one. Just let me go through it.

**Robert** -: That was an issue rather than a PR, and we dealt with it already at the beginning. It was issue 109. We have contending discussion rather than try to fix the problems as they come up in the existing system, to try to come up with an alternative framework that's going to be a little bit easier to manage. For people that weren't following issue 109, this is the website generator that generates cips.cardano.org from the GitHub's CIP repository. And it's a bit clunky, consisting of a bunch of scripts. And Matthias had some suggestions in issue 109 about maybe using Hugo, with Docusource being a little bit too heavy. But without Matthias being here at the meeting, I don't think it makes sense to include it in today's discussion. And it's also not an urgent tissue.

**M. Àngels** -: Perfect.

**Sebastien** -: There's a few CIPs that haven't been reviewed yet, but are ready to be reviewed, notably 62, 66, 68. I think 62 might be a bit early for that one, because there's still a lot of things in the air, but we can introduce it for anybody interested. So this is basically, Catalyst is moving towards a system called DREPS, where basically, people can delegate their Catalyst voting power to other people. And to be able to do this in centralized way, we need to enable basically anybody to sign up to be DREPS. And we also need wallets in DApps to be able to create transactions that delegate your voting power to these DREPS for other people. This CIP defines the changes to CIP 30, which is why I mentioned previously of the Catalyst team may be interested in changing the enable function for CIP 30 in general, to make it easier for making changes to CIP 30, because they also [inaudible 00:41:26] changes to CIP 30. So, that's just that background. There's still some ongoing discussions about the right format API for this CIP, but just FYI that it's out there [inaudible 00:41:47]. No other comment or questions, we can move on to maybe 68?

**Kevin** -: Sorry. Could I just say, Sebastien, CIP 62, the precursor to 62, there's already been some discussion with wallet [inaudible 00:42:16]. What we're doing first is to try to open our discussion to the community. One of the procedural questions is, what's the best [inaudible 00:42:32] to extensions to-

**Frederic** -: Kevin, your audio's cutting in and out somehow. Anybody else having issues?

**Kevin** -: It's Discord. Let me try again. So what I was saying is, there's been some discussion with some wallet providers on CIP 62, the proposed adapt connector. What we're doing here is to open up the discussion to the broader community and to ask for general feedback. One of the procedural points that's come up is what's the best way to provide extensions to CIP 30. So what we don't want to do is to completely replace it. What we want is a mechanism that says, you've got CIP 30, here's an extension. And in this case it's for voting, but it might be that we need extensions to CIP 30 for other purposes, too. So we want to waive, to be able to say, oh, you have access to CIP 30, but not CIP 62. You have access to CIP 30 and some new CIP, and so on. So that there's a way to basically select sensibly between different extensions to the base DApp connector. That's the question, I think, for people on this call.

**M. Àngels** -: So maybe Kevin, if you want to make the question again, so the editors can answer you, if they know it?

**Kevin** -: Yeah. So it's not a question we need answered immediately. We are happy just to raise it with you and for you to think about it. But one of the core questions is, when we provide extended capability to CIP 30, what is the mechanism that we should be using to enable that? So should we be providing some completely self-contained CIP? Should we be saying, oh, this CIP requires CIP 30. What if you've got two incompatible CIPs, both building on CIP 30? So it's starting to raise questions about how do you extend existing capabilities, and how do you enable interoperability? Happy to raise these questions on the PR itself, of course, just to make sure you're aware of them.

**M. Àngels** -: But the... Go ahead, Rob.

**Robert** -: Oh. Well, an issue came up like this with CIP 13, which is for a URI scheme. And it seemed for two or three months that there were going to be other people presenting different syntaxes into the URI scheme, and that if there was the possibility of getting more than one or two of those, it would make sense for each of those to be presented as its own CIP. So that turned out not to be necessary, but we were prepared to have the individual authors for each of those extensions to the URI scheme, submit their own CRP explaining it in detail, so it wouldn't have to be coordinated or accountability or advocacy for this CIP wouldn't have to be shared with the original authors of CIP 13. So I think that this is one of those cases that would do well with that approach, as well.

**Kevin** -: Yes, we're absolutely happy with that. This is more of a technical question about enabling the extension. So, how do you enable the extension consistently in the API? So there needs to be some discussion about that. Sebastien can probably comment on this, but you can imagine having, say, CIP 62 and CIP 63, which both provide extensions to CIP 30, but which are mutually incompatible. And then you need to have some way to say, I can support CIP 62, but not CIP 63, or I can support CIP 30. There actually has to be a way for the user to select between the different capabilities in a consistent way. Let me make sure that question gets raised properly as a comment on CIP.

**M. Àngels** -: That would be fantastic. Thank you very much, Kevin. So shall we move to CIP 68? I think you mentioned, Sebastien, that this was one that was worthwhile mentioning.

**Sebastien** -: Yeah. So basically with the introduction of Vasil, it's possible to mimic global estate for a smart contract, but basically having some UTX entry that holds some special NFT be denoted as the UTX entry that contains the global estate of the contract. This CIP, CIP 68, is basically a standardization for this exact feature, with some emphasis on NFTs, but also not just for NFT.

**Sebastien** -: The interesting about their proposal is that they want to have a single minting policy that handles everything. So instead of having one minting policy for the global estate NFT, one minting policy for the actual NFT series, if this is an NFT mint, and then one NFT for other standards, or sorry, one script for other standards, they all want to have all of this handled by a single script, all in one script. And they document how they would do this with all in one script, by basically stuffing information into the asset name, which as you may remember, asset name on Cardano is just the arbitrary binary strain. So they can [inaudible 00:49:12], they want it there as sort of standard. That's basically the idea of the CIP. The downside of doing this is one, of course, you need to have one master minting script. It maybe kind of awkward to deal with, especially if new standards come out in the future, you can't support these new standards with your existing antique projects.

**Sebastien** -: And the other thing that's awkward about this is the cost of the approach. The approach line described in the CIP is also extremely large. And then last thing [inaudible 00:49:55] Fred mentioned is that also this reduces these amount of space you have for asset deeds, because it adds a pretty big [inaudible 00:50:05]. These are the three core issues with the CIP, but I don't see any technical issues with the CIP as it's described. Obviously there's some practical issues that may mean that people may not want to take this approach. And actually, if you're interested in a separate way to tackle basically the exact same problem, you can look at CIP 56, which is by end maker, which is a proposal for DIDs on Cardano. But actually the approaches for DIDs is another alternative structure that's kind of like, I wouldn't say a competitor, but an alternative to CIP 68 that we're looking at right now.

**M. Àngels** -: Any comments on this one? Shall we bring any of these two last PRs to the next meeting agenda?

**Sebastien** -: Yeah.

**Robert** -: Yeah. I think that sounds great. These are things that I'd like to hear from Matthais about. The last couple of them are technically, I can't really contribute anything about them. I'm sure that he could, though.

**M. Àngels** -: Perfect. We have 12 minutes left. Do you want to review another one, or do you want to go directly to a wrap up and close the session?

**Robert** -: I'm okay with wrapping up.

**M. Àngels** -: Perfect. Any one of you want to do the closing? If not, I have notes on the PR and I can do it myself.

**Frederic** -: One check on for request 263, the conflicts have been resolved. Sebastien, if you want to add your take on this one and nudge it, I think we're good to move it forward at CIP 54.

**M. Àngels** -: Nice.

**Frederic** -: Good to close, otherwise.

**M. Àngels** -: So if you like to merge it online, that would be great.

**Frederic** -: Sebastien, do you want to do it?

**Robert** -: Oops. I-

**Sebastien** -: Yeah, if they're not interested in making changes of their functionality based off the Vasil hard work, then I don't see any problem merging it. Worst case, they can just come in and modify their while we merge the IP later.

### Discussions
N/A

### Issues
N/A

### Close 

**M. Àngels** -: Okay, perfect. So let's do a wrap-up of the session today. We have briefly mentioned CIP 58, Biblase Primitives, but we have decided to wait until we have Michael Paton in the call. We did the review of broken links on the website that we are going to leave this discussion offline. We have reviewed two PRs related to CIP 30, duplicate signed transaction and chain signing, and adding optional network ID parameter to enable. Both of them are on hold, because we are waiting on a governance process on CIP 30. Then we have PR 263, Cardano smart NFTs. It is the one that we have merged now online. This has been approved and merged during the meeting. We have CIP 50. We had Kevin on stage, and he has mentioned that the IOG is really willing us to engage with this PR and this is probably to be done after Vasil hard fork. And if they have not engaged it yet, it is for a lack of capacity. I would like to thank Kevin for his intervention today, it's very much appreciated. Then we have reviewed CIP 44, additional factors, NFT market verification. This one, what we are going to do is to think again the marketplaces and try to get their feedback. And then we have reviewed CIP 62, governance API for that connectors dot wallet web bridge. And Sebastien has walked us through this PR. And Kevin has raised a question regarding how to extend the capability of CIP 30. And this question is going to be added to the PR itself, and the editors are going to review and go back to Kevin with an answer. And finally, we have reviewed CIP 68, data metadata standard, where Sebastien has walked us through the PR, and we are going to keep this CIP 68 and 62 for review in the next meeting. Thank you very much all for attending. A special thanks to Kevin, that has shared his view on state. And well, next meeting is going to be held on August 2 at half past 8:00 AM, UTC. I'll be on holidays, so my colleague Anthony Mayer, will take over. And I wish you all a very great summer, and see you after the summer. Bye-bye.

**Frederic** -: Bye-bye.

**Robert** -: You too. Bye-bye.


## Extra

### [Current CIPs in the CIP repository and their status](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/README.md)

:bulb: -  For more details about Statuses, refer to [CIP1](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001).


### CIP creation process as a Sequence Diagram  

_"Alice has a Cardano idea she'd like to build more formally":_
![Mary interacting with community and editors for a Cardano Proposal](../sequence_diagram.png?raw=true "sequence_diagram.png")

### Understanding CIPs further

[![Cardano Improvement Proposals](https://img.youtube.com/vi/q7U10EfqXJw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7U10EfqXJw)
[![The Cardano Effect Ep.94](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dnw7k7VKVyo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnw7k7VKVyo)
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About

