---
CIP: ?
Title: Ed25519 elliptic curve group primitives
Authors: Morgan Thomas <morgan.thomas@platonic.systems>
Discussions-To: <morgan.thomas@platonic.systems>
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Created: 2022-07-27
* License: Apache-2.0
---

## Preamble

RFC 822 style headers containing metadata about the CIP, including the CIP
number, a short descriptive title (limited to a maximum of 44 characters),
the names, and optionally the contact info for each author, etc.

## Simple Summary

This CIP proposes that Plutus be extended with native code
implementations of certain mathematical operations which are useful for
cryptography. These mathematical operations are used in the implementation
of the Ed25519 public/private key signing protocol. Cardano already
supports a native code implementation of verifying signatures created by
the Ed25519 signing protocol, but it does not enable Plutus to scripts
perform the underlying mathematical operations directly. Being able to do
this would be useful for implementing other cryptographic protocols based
on the Ed25519 mathematical operations.  Applications include verifying
zero-knowledge proofs, such as in the context of implementing zk-rollups.

## Abstract

Extend Plutus with primitives for performing calculations over the
Ed25519 curve and the corresponding finite field.  These operations are
to include the basic group and field operations, as well as multiscalar
multiplication.

## Motivation

CIP-0381 proposes inclusion of the Bls12-381 curve in Plutus. Bls12-381
is a pairing-friendly curve. Not all applications of elliptic curves
require a pairing-friendly curve. Choosing a non-pairing-friendly
curve where a pairing-friendly curve is not required can lead to better
usage of computing power.  The Ed25519 curve allows for more efficient
operations as compared to the Bls12-381 curve.  Pairing-friendly curves
require the use of more bits in order to achieve security (255 bits
for Ed25519 vs 381 bits for Bls12-381). Therefore it would be helpful,
for those applications which do not require a pairing-friendly curve,
to include a non-pairing-friendly curve in Plutus.

An example application of the Ed25519 curve is in verifying
zk-SNARKs on-chain. Halo 2, for example, can be used with the Ed25519
curve as the underlying curve. In its standard incarnation, Halo
2 uses the Pasta curves (Pallas and Vesta). This is a 2-cycle of
non-pairing-friendly curves.  The Pasta curves are specialized to a
particular recursive proof strategy, as described in [Section 4.6 of the
Halo 2 book](https://zcash.github.io/halo2/background/recursion.html/).
For non-recursive proofs, the Pallas and Vesta curves are not required,
and the Ed25519 curve suffices.

Halo 2 over the Ed25519 curve offers short proofs and relatively low
proof computational complexity of proof verification. These are the
characteristics we are looking for in a zk-SNARK theory optimized for
on-chain proof verification.

Recursive proofs are very important in some applications of zk-SNARKs:
zk-rollups, in particular.  Recursive proofs can be homogeneous (verifying
a zk-SNARK produced by theory A in a zk-SNARK produced by theory A), or
heterogeneous (verifying a zk-SNARK produced by theory A in a zk-SNARK
produced by theory B).

Halo 2's recursive Pasta curves proof strategy is heterogeneous: it
uses proofs over the Pallas curve to verify proofs over the Vesta curve,
and proofs over the Vesta curve to verify proofs over the Pallas curve.

Orbis Labs has been researching ways of building recursive proofs
off-chain and verifying them on-chain, for the purposes of zk-rollups. One
way to do this is to use FRI-based zk-SNARKs for heterogeneous recursive
proofs. A downside of this is that proof sizes are expected to be
substantially larger than the Cardano transaction size limit when using
FRI, necessitating multiple transactions to verify a proof. Another
downside of this is that for recursive FRI proofs, it makes sense to use
a circuit-friendly hash (e.g., Poseidon or Rescue), but Cardano does not
currently support these natively. Cardano-friendly hashes are those which
are implemented as Plutus primitives: SHA2-256, SHA3-256, and Blake2b-256.

The issue is that currently there is no hash function which efficient
both in-circuit and on-chain.  A relatively simple workaround for this
issue with homogeneous FRI recursion is to use heterogeneous recursive
proofs, where an on-chain proof is generated using FRI with over a
Cardano-friendly hash function, and it recursively verifies a proof
generated using FRI over a circuit-friendly hash function. With this
change of hash function heterogeneous recursive proving pattern, we can
have efficient hashes both in-circuit and on-chain.

More generally, we can decouple the choice of zk-SNARK theory for on-chain
proof verification from the choice of zk-SNARK theory for off-chain
recursive proof building, as long as we can reasonably efficiently
convert one form of zk-SNARK to the other using recursive proving.

For efficient off-chain proving, it makes sense to use a FRI-based
zk-SNARK theory, since this leads to relatively fast proving times,
at the cost of larger proof sizes, compared to Halo 2 for example. This
also has the advantage that recursive proofs are relatively simpler to
implement, because they do not require an accumulation scheme over a
2-cycle of curves. FRI allows for homogeneous recursive proving.

For efficient on-chain proof verification, it would make sense to use
an elliptic curve based zk-SNARK theory, such as Halo 2, since this
leads to relatively small proof sizes, potentially allowing for a proof
to verified in a single Cardano transaction.  However, realizing this
possibility requires primitives for a suitable choice of elliptic curve,
one which is amenable to efficient proof verification.

For realizing Halo 2 proof verification on-chain, we would want primitives
for Pasta curves. However, Pasta curves are not the most ideal choice of
curve for proofs that will not be recursively input to other proofs. When
this is not required, the Ed25519 curve is a better choice because using
it reduces proof size and verification costs. When using FRI for off-chain
recursive proof composition, this requirement is not present. Instead, we
would have a zk-SNARK over an elliptic curve which verifies a FRI-based
zk-SNARK, and that zk-SNARK over the elliptic curve would be the final
proof in the tree of recursive proofs, the one which is posted and
verified on-chain.

On-chain Halo 2 proof verification would open the door to on-chain
verification of more or less all zk-SNARKs, and not just those
mentioned. Halo 2 is a flexible enough theory to encode computable
functions and thus the verification algorithms of arbitrary zk-SNARK
theories. Therefore this CIP should be seen as a step towards efficient
on-chain verification of zk-SNARKs in general.

That describes our particular motivation for wanting the Ed25519 curve in
Plutus at Orbis Labs. Furthermore, we believe that the Ed25519 curve is a
broadly useful cryptographic primitive, when one needs a cryptographically
secure elliptic curve but one does not need a pairing-friendly curve or
a 2-cycle of curves.


## Specification

Add to Plutus the following types:

 * `Ed25519GElement`: the type of elements of the Ed25519 curve.
 * `Ed25519FElement`: the type of elements of the finite field of order
    2^255 - 19.

Add the following functions:

 * Basic group operations:
    * `Ed25519_G_add :: Ed25519GElement -> Ed25519GElement -> Ed25519GElement`
    * `Ed25519_G_neg :: Ed25519GElement -> Ed25519GElement`
 * Basic field operations:
    * `Ed25519_F_add :: Ed25519FElement -> Ed25519FElement -> Ed25519FElement`
    * `Ed25519_F_mul :: Ed25519FElement -> Ed25519FElement -> Ed25519FElement`
    * `Ed25519_F_neg :: Ed25519FElement -> Ed25519FElement`
    * `Ed25519_F_recip :: Ed25519FElement -> Maybe Ed25519FElement`
 * Vector space operations:
    * `Ed25519_scale :: Ed25519FElement -> Ed25519GElement -> Ed25519GElement`
    * `Ed25519_scale_and_add :: [Ed25519FElement] -> [Ed25519GElement] -> Ed25519GElement`
 * Conversions:
    * `Ed25519_G_serialise :: Ed25519GElement -> ByteString`
    * `Ed25519_G_deserialise :: ByteString -> Maybe Ed25519GElement`
    * `Ed25519_F_serialise :: Ed25519FElement -> ByteString`
    * `Ed25519_F_deserialise :: ByteString -> Maybe Ed25519FElement`
    * `Ed25519_F_to_integer :: Ed25519FElement -> Integer`
    * `Ed25519_F_from_integer :: Integer -> Ed25519FElement`
 * Equality comparisons:
    * `eq :: Ed25519GElement -> Ed25519GElement -> bool`
    * `eq :: Ed25519FElement -> Ed25519FElement -> bool`
 * Identities:
    * `Ed25519_G_zero :: Ed25519GElement`
    * `Ed25519_F_zero :: Ed25519FElement`
    * `Ed25519_F_one :: Ed25519FElement`

This makes for two new types, 16 new functions, and three new constants.

This CIP writes the Ed25519 elliptic curve group in additive notation.
The vector space operations consider the Ed25519 curve as a vector
space over the scalar field `Ed25519FElement`. This implies that there
is a scalar multiplication operation, which is `Ed25519_scale`. This
also implies that we can take linear combinations of vectors of curve
elements, which is what `Ed25519_scale_and_add` does.

The Ed25519 curve is the elliptic curve defined by the equation:

```
-x^2 + y^2 = 1 - (121665/121666) * x^2 * y^2
```

This is a twisted Edwards curve.

Field elements are serialized in big endian notation, taking up 32
bytes each.  This leaves one unused bit, which should be set to zero.

Group elements can be serialized in compressed form (just the
x-coordinate), or in uncompressed form (both the x-coordinate and
the y-coordinate).  A group element encoding consists of 65 bytes in
compressed form, or 129 bytes in uncompressed form. The first byte should
have all bits except the three least significant bits set to zero. Let
b0 denote the least significant bit, b1 the second least significant,
and b2 the third least significant.

 * b0 is 1 if and only if the group element is in compressed form. 
 * b1 is 1 if and only if the element is the point at infinity.
   (The rest of the encoding after b1 should be zero in case b1 1 is 1.)
 * b2 is 1 if and only if the element is in compressed form and not the
   point at infinity and the point is "positive," meaning that its y
   coordinate is lexicographically greater than the y coordinate of the
   other point on the curve with the same x coordinate.

A compressed group element encoding consists of the one byte
containing the three flags, followed by field element encoding of the x
coordinate. An uncompressed group element encoding consists of the one
byte containing the three flags, followed by two field element encodings,
first the x coordinate and then the y coordinate.

## Rationale

The inclusion of `Ed25519_scale_and_add` is to allow for an efficient
implementation of taking linear combinations of group elements. This
is important for efficient proof verification for Halo 2's inner
product argument. For example, this operation can be implemented using
[Pippenger's algorithm](https://jbootle.github.io/Misc/pippenger.pdf).
Likely, an efficient implementation of this operation would be useful
for other applications of this curve, too.


## Backward Compatibility

There are no expected backward compatibility issues.

## Test Cases

Property test the group, field, and vector space axioms. Also property
test that `Ed25519_scale_and_add` produces the same result as zipping
the lists with `Ed25519_scale` and then folding them with `Ed25518_G_add`.

Provide golden tests for serialization and deserialization. These are unit
tests which provide explicit inputs to serialization and deserialization
and explicit expectations as to the results. Also provide round trip
property tests for serialization and deserialization.

Provide round trip property tests for `Ed25519_F_to_integer` and
`Ed25519_F_from_integer`.  The round trip properties for these functions
are that

```
Ed25519_F_from_integer . Ed25519_F_to_integer = id,
```

and that for all integers `x`,

```
Ed25519_F_to_integer (Ed25519_F_from_integer x) ≡ x mod 2^255 - 19.
```

Provide property tests which check that the equality comparisons are
equivalence relations (relexive, transitive, and symmetric).

## Implementations

Author is not aware of a Haskell binding to a fast and battle tested
implementation of the Ed25519 curve. The first step to building an
implementation would be to find or build such a binding. After that,
the next steps would be to make Plutus depend on this binding and add
the specified primitives to Plutus.

## Copyright

This CIP is licensed under Apache-2.0 by Orbis Labs (2022).
